Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 
Concerning Consumer Protection  
 
The Cabinet:  
– Having reviewed the Constitution;  
– Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the competencies of Ministries and the powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
– Federal Law No. (4) of 2012 Concerning the Regulation of Competition;  
– Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning Consumer Protection;  
– Based  on what was presented by the Minister of Economy; and approval of the Cabinet,  
Have decided the following:  
 
Article (1) 
Definitions  
The definitions set forth in Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 shall be applied to this resolution. 
Otherwise, the following terms and expressions shall be accorded their designated meanings, unless 
the context requires otherwise:  
Concerned 
Authority  : The Min istry or the competent authority, as case may be . 
Law  : Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning Consumer Protection . 
 
Article  (2) 
Coordination with the Relevant Authorities  
1. The Ministry shall coordinate with the relevant authorities to ensure the protection of consumer 
rights, as follows:  
a. Develop plans and programmes to protect consumer rights;  
b. Study any proposals related to the protection of consumer rights; and  
c. Spread community awareness regarding the protection of consumer rights.  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  2 
 2. Coordination shall take place between the Ministry and the relevant authorities based on the 
mechanism that shall be determined by agreement between them.  
 
Article  (3) 
Labelling  
The provider shall clearly and legibly display the essential information specified by laws, regulations, 
technical standards, and approved specifications regarding the packaging or presentation of the 
product. Such data shall be according to the nature of the product and it shall include, but is not 
limited to, the following details:  
1. The name, type, nature, components and quantity of the good, whether in relation to weight, 
measu rement, number, measure, capacity, standard, or any other criteria affecting the value thereof;  
2. The country of origin (the name of the country preceded by the phrase: “Made in”);  
3. The country of export (if any);  
4. The name of the producer or impor ter, accompanied by the commercial address or trademark;  
5. Production date and shelf life;  
6. Conditions of trade, storage and method of use;  
7. Warning of the dangers that may result from the wrong use of the good, which shall be in a clear 
and easy -to-read font; and  
8. Determination of the categories and ages of consumers who may be exposed to risks when using 
the product, especially children, disabled, and the elderly.  
 
Article  (4) 
Instruction on the Use and Installation of the Good  
1. Provider shall  attach the data on how to use and install the good therewith, according to the nature 
of the good and the extent to which it includes parts that can be disassembled and installed.  
2. The data set forth in Clause (1) of this Article  shall clearly include the method of installation or use 
on the packaging or the outer cover of the good, in a way that allows it to be done by the consumer 
himself or when it is necessary to seek the assistance of a technician to install the good.  
3. It is required to clearly and explicitly state the contents of the box containing the goods, as well as 
identifying any complementary item that shall be purchased in order to avail of the basic good.  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  3 
  
Article  (5) 
Announcing the Prices of Goods and Services  
The provider shall abide by the following:  
1. Announce the prices of goods and services in a clear and legible manner, provided that the 
announcement shall be made in one of the following ways:  
a. Writing down the price on the good in a clear manner, acc ording to its nature;  
b. Placing the price information on a card where the good is displayed in; or  
c. Display the price information at the location where the service is being offered, in a clear and 
readable manner.  
2. Clearly and explicitly indicating  if the provider accepts discount cards from consumers as well as 
the value of the discount so that it is clearly and legibly announced to the consumer.  
3. Not to add any additional amounts to the value of the goods in the event of using credit cards to 
purchase goods and services.  
 
Article  (6) 
Provider Obligations Upon Contracting  
1. The provider shall submit to the consumer an invoice proving conducting a transaction or 
contracting with him for the good or service, without placing any additional burden thereon, 
provided that it shall include the following data:  
a. Name, address and contact information of the provider;  
b. Invoice date;  
c. Description of the item or service;  
d. Sale unit and the quantity of good or the number of sold units;  
e. Conditi on of the good, if used;  
f. The price of the good or service in local currency;  
g. Warranty period, if any;  
h. Date of the good delivery or service provision;  
i. Serial number of goods and the parts contained therein, according to the nature of each go od;  
j. Commercial registration or registration number; and  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  4 
 k. Tax number (if any).  
2. Provider shall be obligated to give the consumer a warranty -related document, either separately 
from the invoice or through the invoice, as case may be.  
3. It shall be incumbent upon the provider to furnish the consumer with a payment plan if the 
produ ct or service rendered to the consumer is to be delivered in stages, and such payments shall be 
linked to the completion of each stage.  
 
Article  (7) 
Used or Refurbished Goods  
A provider who offers to trade used or refurbished good or that contain a defect  that does not result 
in any harm to the health and safety of the consumer, shall clearly announce the condition of the 
good thereon, as well as in the place where the provider carries out its activity, in a manner that shall 
not lead to creating an untrue  or misleading impression on the consumer; besides, the provider shall 
prove the condition of the good in the concluded contract or the issued invoice thereby.  
 
Article  (8) 
Misleading Advertisement for a Good or Service  
A description, advertisement, or of fer of a good or service, as case may be, shall be considered 
deceptive if it includes a misleading statement that may lead, directly or indirectly, to creating an 
unreal or misleading impression on the consumer, and in particular if it deals with one or m ore of 
the following elements:  
1. The nature of the good, composition, essential characteristics, the elements that make up the 
good, quantity, shape or appearance thereof;  
2. The characteristics of the good, including its origin, nature, method of produ ction, production 
date, expiration date, conditions of use, usage precautions, weight, size, quantity, measurement, 
agent, capacity, standard, or any other relevant criteria that shall be specified;  
3. The country of origin, the country of export, or the entity producing the good;  
4. Contract terms and procedures, including after -sales service, warranty, price, and type of payment;  
5. Prizes, certificates or quality marks;  
6. Trademarks, data, or logos; or  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  5 
 7. The characteristics of the good or service and the expected results from use thereof.  
 
Article  (9) 
Handling Contingencies  
1. In the event of a crisis or unusual circumstances leading to an abnormal increase in prices, 
temporary measures may be taken upon a resolution of the Minister to limi t such increase and 
protect the rights of consumers, including:  
a. Determine the prices of the good or service in which the increase occurred;  
b. Prohibit the exportation of the good;  
c. Determine sales quotas;  
d. Encourage manufacturing or importing from alternative sources;  
e. Assign specific parties to import; and  
f. Any other procedures as decided by the Minister.  
2. In determining what is considered an abnormal increase in prices, the following bases shal l be 
taken into account:  
a. The rate of inflation in the country;  
b. The price of the good or service in previous periods;  
c. The prices range in the country and in neighbouring countries;  
d. The price of the good or service in the country and in neigh bouring countries;  
e. The rate of increase percentage in the price of a good or service;  
f. The foreign currency exchange value at the time of importing the good or raw materials;  
g. Consumer complaints to the concerned authority;  
h. Increase in freigh t, transportation and insurance rates;  
i. High prices in the country of origin;  
j. High energy prices; and  
k. Extent of competition or monopoly according to the laws in force in the country.  
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  6 
 Article  (10)  
Unit Pricing  
The Minister may, taking into a ccount the special circumstances of dealing in some types of good 
and services, oblige the provider to approve the unit price for displaying the prices of some good, 
and to show it alongside the previous price of the goods, to guarantee the right of the co nsumer to 
compare prices.  
 
Article  (11)  
Warranty Document  
The provider shall not advertise verbally or by any means of media about the warranty of the good 
without giving the consumer the document evidencing such warranty.  
 
Article  (12)  
Warranty data  
The warranty for the goods and the performance of services provided to the consumer by the 
provider shall be in accordance with the terms of the contract concluded between them, provided 
that the warranty shall include the following items:  
1. The name and  data of the provider;  
2. The date of purchasing the good or providing the service;  
3. Warranty duration;  
4. Name, model and serial number of the good;  
5. Indication if the warranty includes all parts of the good and the price of repair and replacement ;  
6. A statement with the consumer obligations under the terms of the warranty;  
7. Clearly stating the exceptions of the warranty, if any; and  
8. Any other data included in the contract.  
 
  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  7 
 Article  (13)  
Obligations of the Provider in Honouring the Warra nty 
1. The provider shall comply with the warranty of the service provided to the consumer for a 
reasonable period, commensurate with the nature of the service or the duration agreed upon with 
the consumer, whichever is longer. If the provider fails to ful fil this obligation, the consumer shall be 
entitled to select from the following options:  
a. Refund the full price in the event of non -implementation of the service or failure to implement 
it;  
b. Refund part of the price to the extent of benefiting from the service or in return for what 
compensate the lack of service; or  
c. Re -performance of the service by the provider in the correct manner and in the contracted form.  
2. The provider shall also be obligated to clearly warn the consumer of the possible damages as a 
result of the provided service, the precautions to be taken, if any, and how to prevent them and the 
means of treatment from any resulting damage, according t o the nature of each service.  
 
Article  (14)  
Provider Obligations Regarding Spare Parts  
The provider shall provide the necessary spare parts for operating and repairing the goods according 
to the following:  
1. With regard to spare parts for which consumer s demand regularly and continuously: the provider 
shall provide them without interruption, as soon as the consumer requests them, within a period 
not exceeding (7) seven days from the date of the consumer request for them;  
2. With regard to spare parts fo r which the demand of the consumer is not usually regular and 
continuous: the provider shall provide them within a period not exceeding (14) fourteen days from 
the date of the consumer request for them, except for force majeure and at the discretion of the  
concerned authority;  
3. With regard to goods that are supplied from other than the local commercial agent: the 
commercial agent shall provide the necessary spare parts for maintenance and repair, if it was 
proved that they were covered by the agency cont ract at the date of the consumer request for them, 
or were subject of a previous agency. In this case, the obligation of the commercial agent to provide Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  8 
 spare parts shall be within a period not exceeding (30) thirty days from the date of the consumer 
reque st for them, taking into account force majeure and emergency circumstances, if proven; and  
4. With regard to spare parts that the factory has ceased to manufacture, the provider shall clarify 
this matter to the consumer by agreeing with him to provide alt ernative spare parts or find other 
solutions.  
 
Article  (15)  
Determining the Level of Consumer Demand for Spare Parts  
Subject to the provisions of Article  (14) of this Resolution, the concerned authority shall determine 
the level of consumer demand for spare parts, based on one of the following criteria:  
1. The importance of the spare part and the need to periodically ch ange it; and  
2. The sales record for the spare parts and the consumer demand for it during the previous quarter 
or the similar quarter of the previous year.  
 
Article  (16)  
Mechanism for Providing Spare Parts and Providing Maintenance Service  
The provider shall establish a written mechanism for providing spare parts, providing maintenance 
service, and providing the warranty in accordance with the conditions set by the factory, and 
complying with it towards the consumer, provided that it shall indicate in de tail its obligations, their 
scope, and the rights of the consumer, taking into account the following:  
1. Include this mechanism in documents (brochures) written in the Arabic language and in a clear 
and understandable formulation for the consumer, and pla ce it in a prominent place in the sales 
outlets and centres affiliated with the provider, and enable the consumer to view it and publish it on 
the website. The consumer may also be provided with an additional, identical copy in another 
language.  
2. Indica tion of the postal address, telephone number and e -mail address of the provider.  
 
  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  9 
 Article  (17)  
Maintenance Works for Goods Under Warranty  
1. The provider shall specify in writing a specific period for the completion of the maintenance work 
for the goods  under warranty, according to the nature of the required maintenance or the reasons 
for the repair.  
2. If the repair time takes more than (7) seven days, the provider shall provide an alternative good 
similar to the consumer good to use it free of charge for the period when the consumer is unable to 
benefit from the good, and the provider shall have the right - instead - to agree with the consumer 
on another mechanism to compensate the consumer or include it in the mechanisms of 
implementing the war ranty, unless the defect or defect arises from the behaviour of the consumer.  
 
Article  (18)  
Obligations of Provider Upon Providing Periodic Maintenance Services for Goods 
Under Warranty  
When providing periodic maintenance services for the goods under warra nty, the provider shall 
abide by the following:  
1. Provide equipment, technicians and workers to provide the service within an appropriate period;  
2. Carry out the necessary maintenance for the goods using trained human resources and 
appropriate techniques according to the instructions of the manufacturer, in a manner that 
guarantees the quality of maintenance;  
3. Allocate appropriate means of commu nication with consumers to facilitate services and 
coordinate when receiving and delivering goods;  
4. Indicate the periodic maintenance cost, the date of its performance and the time it takes, and place 
it in a prominent place in service centres affiliate d thereto;  
5. Provide a statement of the estimated cost of maintenance at any time upon request of the 
consumer;  
6. Clarify the fee for maintenance services, including examination, inspection, replacement of 
damaged parts, how to calculate the price of l abour and other paid services;  
7. Indicate the prices of spare parts by placing them on the packaging thereof, or by using any other 
techniques or procedures that allow the consumer to verify them himself; and  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  10 
 8. Keep the replaced spare parts and deliver  them to the consumer before paying the prescribed 
price. The consumer may assign them to the provider in order to destroy them in the appropriate 
ways.  
 
Article  (19)  
Warranty of Goods Within the Warranty Period  
1. The provider shall provide a warranty fo r the good for the duration specified by the manufacturer 
or commercial agent. This warranty shall commence from the date on which the consumer receives 
the original or replacement good in the event of a defect. The warranty period shall be extended for 
the duration(s) in which the consumer was unable to use the good due to repairs of defects covered 
by the warranty, or due to a delay in maintenance caused by the provider, or a delay in the supply of 
necessary spare parts during the warranty period.  
2. The provider shall clearly and explicitly state the cases that invalidate the warranty, and the 
consumer shall be notified thereof prior to purchase.  
3. The concerned authority shall have the right to regulate the validity of the warranty upon 
maintenance in the independent service centres on the good subject to maintenance, and on the 
good that, upon maintenance, requires using parts sold from other than the provider.  
4. The concerned authority may organise after -sales service in independent service centres.  
 
Article  (20)  
Obligations of Provider Upon Discovery of a Defect in Goods  
1. Upon discovering a defect in the good that affects efficiency, effectiveness, or the danger of use 
thereof, the provider shall inform the concerned authority and the consumer of the potential 
damages and how to prevent them when using them, in accordance with the following procedures:  
a. Stop trading the good or providing the service;  
b. Withdraw the good from the market; and  
c. Recovery of defective goods, replacement or repair thereof at own expense or a full refund of 
the value paid by the consumer.  
2. The provider shall be prohibited from reselling or displaying the withdrawn or returned goods on 
the electronic sales platf orms.  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  11 
 3. In all cases, the concerned authority shall be informed of the procedures taken by the provider in 
this regard.  
 
Article  (21)  
Notifying Upon Discovery of a Defect in the Good  
1. Upon discovery of the defect, the notification shall be made by the provider or his legal 
representative to the concerned authority in writing on the form prepared for such purpose, 
provided that it shall include the following data:  
a. The name, descri ption, surname, nationality, address, and chosen domicile of the informant in 
the country. If the notification was made by the legal representative of the provider, an 
authenticated power of attorney shall be attached;  
b. A statement of the reported good;   
c. Name, address and country of origin of the provider;  
d. The date the informant discovered the reported defect;  
e. Accurate technical identification of the reported defect;  
f. Damages likely to occur from the defect subject of the report, and an ind ication of how to 
prevent such damages or reconcile the effects resulting therefrom in the event of their occurrence;  
g. The procedures and means provided by the provider to enable the consumer to replace, repair 
or return the good, along with a refund of  the price that was paid without any additional 
expenses; and  
h. Any other data that the provider deems necessary to include in the good.  
2. The notification shall be recorded in a special registry prepared for such purpose at the concerned 
authority, an d the informant shall be given a receipt to that effect, including the entry number, date 
and time of its occurrence.  
 
Article  (22)  
Informing the Consumer Upon Discovery of Defect in Goods  
1. The consumer shall be notified upon discovery of a defect in th e good by the provider or his legal 
representative, in coordination with the concerned authority, according to the following:  
a. Announcement in at least two daily local newspapers, one of which shall be in Arabic;  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  12 
 b. Announcement on all websites and soc ial media of the provider or the competent authority 
within (24) twenty -four hours of discovering the defect;  
c. The area of the announcement shall not be less than (15 cm x 15 cm) in a clear and legible 
manner, unless the concerned authority specifies other specifications for it; and  
d. The announcement shall include the following information:  
1. Name, address, em ail address and contact number of the provider;  
2. The trademark of the good;  
3. Name, description and the country of origin of the good;  
4. A clear picture of the good;  
5. The number of the defective goods;  
6. Description of the defect;  
7. The model or operational nu mber of the good;  
8. Instructions that the consumer shall follow in order to avoid any damages that may 
result from the use of the good;  
9. Instructions that the consumer shall follow to repair, replace or recover the value of the 
good; and  
10. Communicate with the consumer by all available means, including by phone or via e -
mail, and write this down in a special registry.  
2. The concerned authority shall determine the period of time in which the announcement shall be 
made and the timing thereof , and it shall have the right to determine any other means of 
announcing.  
 
Article  (23)  
Obligations of Provider to Inform the Recovery of Goods  
Obligations of the provider to inform the concerned authority and the consumer about the recovery 
of defective and harmful goods, shall be according to the following time periods:  
1. In the event of recovery of goods affecting security and safety: the notification shall be immediate, 
and not exceeding (24) twenty -four hours from the date of discovery of the defect  necessitating a 
recovery; and  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  13 
 2. In the event of recovery of goods other than those stipulated in Clause (1) of this Article : the 
notification shall be made within a period not exceeding (7) seven days from the date of discovery 
of the defect necessitati ng the recovery.  
 
Article  (24)  
Report Data Recovered Goods  
1. The provider shall provide the concerned authority with a report on the goods that have been 
recovered, within (30) thirty days from the start of the recovery process, provided that this report 
shall include the following:  
a. The recovered amount;  
b. A list of the quantities of goods that have been repaired, replaced or refunded;  
c. A list of the owners of the recovered goods and the means of contacting them, and in the event 
that the good was a vehicle, a list of the recovered vehicle chassis numbers  shall be attached to 
the report;  
d. A list of unreachable good owners according to the database of the provider;  
e. Actions taken to correct the declared defect; and  
f. Any other data deemed necessary by the concerned party.  
2. In all cases, the provi der shall not close the recovery file without permission from the concerned 
authority.  
 
Article  (25)  
Defect in the Goods or Service  
The provider shall return the goods that do not have a warranty on the product, or that the warranty 
period of spare parts conflicts with the period of the full warranty on the product, or that do not have 
the warranty of the commercial agent or distributor, and refund their price to the consumer in the 
event that the defect or fault is discovered within a period of (30) thirt y days from the date that a 
defect or fault appears, whether it is apparent or hidden.  
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  14 
 Article  (26)  
Provider Obligations Regarding the Goods Defect  
1. Before carrying out any repairs or changes to the goods, the provider shall document the condition 
of the goods at the time of receipt and the consumer technical notes, notify the consumer by any 
documented means and obtain the consumer approval of the goods repairs cost, the period it takes 
for repair and the warranty period. In addition, the provider shall, after carrying out the repair 
process, issue an invoice to the consumer specifying the parts that have been replaced, their price, 
and indicating w hether these parts are new, used, or refurbished.  
2. The provider shall deal with the repair with the necessary professionalism and guarantee the 
repair and the replaced parts for a period of not less than (15) fifteen days from the date of their 
delivery  to the consumer, unless the nature of the replaced parts and the repair service requires a 
longer period, provided that the defect or fault shall not arise from the consumer usage.  
 
Article  (27)  
Provider Obligations to Provide Alternative Goods  
1. In the event that a defect is discovered in the goods, whether due to the conditions of its 
preservation, storage, trading, installation, or other reasons that the provider bears, the consumer 
shall have the right to choose between returning the goods w ith a refund of its price, replacing it, or 
repairing it without charge;  
2. In all cases, the provider shall provide alternative goods for the consumer to benefit from without 
charge, until it is replaced or repaired; and  
3. In the event that the provide r breaches its obligations stipulated in Clause (2) of this Article , it shall 
compensate the consumer for the cost of providing the alternative goods it took to repair or replace 
the goods.  
 
Article  (28)  
Provider Obligations Upon Defect Re -occurrence  
1. If the provider is unable or fails to fix a recurrent defect, during the warranty period, or more than 
one defect that is not related to the consumer use towards the goods, then the consumer has the Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  15 
 right to obtain new alternative goods with the same catego ry and standards as the original goods, or 
for its value at the time of purchase, in accordance with the following conditions:  
a. Recurrence of the defect results in total or partial non -utilisation of the goods, or affects their 
market value, or the safe ty of use thereof;  
b. The provider exhausts two attempts to repair the recurrent defect in the goods, or three 
attempts to repair it if it is a vehicle, or that the multiple attempts to repair the defect take a period 
exceeding (15) fifteen days in each a ttempt, including the period required to provide spare parts;  
c. If the consumer fails to transport and send the goods to the provider to fix the defect, and it is 
still under warranty, the provider shall pay all transportation costs or send technicians to  the 
consumer residence or the place of the goods.  
2. In the event that the repair is not made in the first attempt, and the consumer fails to reach the 
provider authorised workshop, and the good is a vehicle that is still under warranty, the provider 
shall bear all transportation costs or send technicians to the place where the vehicle broke -down or 
the consumer residence, as the case may be.  
3. The provider shall refund the price of the goods in the event that the consumer partially benefits 
from it, an d it could not be repaired three times or more, after deducting the consumption 
percentage from the price of the product.  
 
Article  (29)  
Provider Obligations to Re -perform the Service  
1. The provider shall re -perform the service in the manner that was agreed upon, in the event that a 
defect is discovered in how the service is performed for any reason attributed to the provider, and 
the consumer shall have the right to request re -perform ance of the service in the manner that was 
agreed upon at first, and without paying any fees or extra expenses by the consumer;  
2. If the provider refuses or fails to perform the service properly or delays its performance, the 
consumer shall have the righ t to recover the full price paid for obtaining it;  
3. If the subject of the service is the repair, maintenance or operation of the goods, and it results in a 
decrease in the value of the goods, loss of its functions or part thereof, or their destruction, the 
provider shall bear the costs of their repair or compensate the consumer for their value or the value 
of the damaged part thereof.  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  16 
  
Article  (30)  
After -Sales Services  
The Minister may issue decisions specifying warranty periods, conditions thereof, and  prices of 
after -sales services for some goods, in proportion to the nature of those goods and the conditions of 
trading them in the markets, taking into account the following:  
1. The importance of the relevant goods to the consumer;  
2. The subjective characteristics, conditions of trading, or the commercial custom of each good;  
3. Existence of a need to avoid arbitrariness against the consumer, in the event that the provider 
intends to draft the warranty conditions in a vague manner or restricts it with the aim of discharge 
itself from legal obligations in this regard;  
4. The need to ensure that the commercial agent provides all the warranties granted by the principal 
in relat ion to the goods subject of the agency; and  
5. The provider shall provide warranties that prove to be given in other countries where the 
conditions of trading are similar to the country.  
 
Article  (31)  
Licence for Promotions and Discounts  
1. The provider shall, upon making and announcing discounts in any means, obtain a prior licence 
from the competent authority in accordance with the procedures followed therein;  
2. The provider shall, upon promoting goods or service in any means, obtain a prior licence f rom the 
competent authority in accordance with the procedures followed therein;  
3. The provider shall notify the consumer of any discounts to be made on the goods or services it 
provides, in the event that the date specified for the enforcement of these d iscounts is within a week 
from the date of the consumer purchase. If the provider violates this obligation, the consumer shall 
have the right to recover the price difference within (30) thirty days from the date of purchase.  
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  17 
 Article  (32)  
Monopolistic Practices  
Subject to the provisions of Federal Law No. (4) of 2012 referred to above, the provider may not:  
1. Discriminate between consumers when selling the goods or benefiting from the service;  
2. Hide the good, refuse to sell it, refuse to provide th e service, force to purchase a certain quantity 
of the goods, stipulate another goods or service with it, or restrict the use of the service to conditions 
that by their nature are not related to the service subject of the original transaction;  
3. Charge a higher price than the announced price by any means of advertisement;  
4. Sell goods or services at prices below cost to create a monopoly situation;  
5. More than one provider ally to harm to the national economy;  
6. The providers agree, expli citly or implicitly, to fix, reduce or raise the price in a declared or secret 
manner, in a way that harms the national economy;  
7. Competitors agree to divide the market among themselves according to geographical distribution 
or sales volume;  
8. The provider purchases competing goods or services from the market for the purpose of 
controlling prices; or  
9. Refuse, stop, or limit t he quantity of production, supply, or offer of goods or services.  
 
Article  (33)  
Prohibition of Monopoly Agreements  
Practices, agreements or contracts, whether written or oral, expressed or implicit, shall be prohibited 
if the purpose of the practices, agre ements or contracts or the resulting effect is to establish any 
monopoly situation.  
 
Article  (34)  
Prohibition of Including a Harmful Term to the Consumer  
Each condition that would exempt the provider from its responsibility or any of its obligations 
stipu lated in the law and herein towards the consumer, whether these conditions are contained in 
contract forms, invoices, documents, or others related to the contract with the consumer, and 
particularly in any of the following cases:  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  18 
 1. The provider give itse lf the right to interpret or amend some of the contract clauses or unilaterally 
terminate it without referring to the consumer or giving him the right to claim compensation;  
2. Authorising the provider, in the case of an indefinite contract, to terminate it unilaterally, and not 
giving the same right to the consumer;  
3. Authorising the provider to determine by himself and without referring to the consumer whether 
the goods or service subject of the contract is in conformity with what is stipulated in the contract;  
4. Cancel or diminish the right of the consumer to claim compensation when the provider breaches 
its obligations;  
5. The provider gives itself the right to unilaterally change the characteristics of the goods or the 
terms of the consumer use of  the service in the case of services subscription contracts. As an 
exception to this provision, the provider may change the service provided by it after notifying the 
consumer of that, if this change would develop or update the service, or for a reason bey ond control 
of the provider;  
6. Waiver of the consumer to any of his rights stipulated in the Law and this Resolution or in any 
other relevant legislation;  
7. Revoke the consumer rights towards the provider or limit them in an unsuitable manner in the 
event that the provider fails to implement its obligations, in whole or in part, or performs them 
poorly;  
8. Obliging the consumer, in the event of failure to fulfil any of his contractual obligations, to pay the 
provider a compensation that is not appropri ate to the actual damages resulting from his its failure 
to fulfil his obligation;  
9. Determining the price of the goods upon offer and delivery, or the price of the service is subject to 
review by the will of the provider alone in the case of long -term c ontracts, and not allow the 
consumer to request termination of the contract when the final price is too high compared to what 
was agreed upon;  
10. Put the phrase “goods sold are neither returned nor exchanged”, except for any of the following 
cases:  
a. If the consumer was aware of the defect or fault in the goods when purchasing it and accepted 
it in its condition, and this is proven in the purchase invoice;  
b. If it was one of the goods whose nature, characteristics, or method of packaging precludes it 
from being replaced or returned, such as its exposure to damage or the impossibility of returning Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  19 
 it to the state it was at the time of purchase, in a way that prevents it from being resold, unless the 
reason for the return and replacement is defects in ma nufacturing or a violation of standard 
specifications, or other than what has been agreed upon in terms of specifications; and  
c. If the consumer goods were subject to rapid perish -ability, unless it is proved that they are 
spoiled or expired for human co nsumption on the date of purchase, or goods that are 
manufactured according to specifications determined by the consumer, as well as books, 
newspapers and magazines.  
11. Not refunding the price of the goods or the service to the consumer;  
12. Obliging the consumer to deal with specific financing or insurance companies;  
13. Setting conditions for the need to carry out maintenance at the agency within a certain period of 
time, and not to perform any maintenance or repair outside the agency, taking into account the 
assessment of the concerned authority and the extent to which approved centres are available to 
carry out this type of maintenance in accordance with the requ irements and requirements; and  
14. The provider being not responsible for the goods while providing the service.  
 
Article  (35)  
Consumer Complaints  
1. The competent authority shall receive consumer complaints, examine them, and follow them up, 
and for this purpose it may take the following measures:  
a. Complaints registration, provided that it shall include the following data:  
1. The name, address, and  capacity of the complaint and date of filing the complaint;  
2. The name and address of the defendant and the nature of activity thereof;  
3. The type of violation subject of the complaint;  
4. The evidence on which the complaint is based and related documents, if  any; and  
5. Any other documents or data required by the concerned authority.  
b. The competent authority may refuse to receive any complaint that does not fulfil any of the 
data and documents specified in Paragraph (a) of Clause (1) of this Article , or if t he complainant 
fails to submit the data and documents within the time period it specifies; and  
c. The competent authority shall study the complaint and respond to the complainant within the 
period it determines according to the nature of the complaint.  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  20 
 2. The complainant may submit the complaint to the Ministry in any of the cases that are determined 
by agreement between the Ministry and the competent authority.  
 
Article  (36)  
Testing Goods in Laboratories  
1. The relevant authority may, whenever the publi c interest requires, test the goods in laboratories 
ensure the validity of the goods;  
2. In the event of a dispute between the provider and the consumer, the relevant authority may test 
the goods in laboratories to ensure the validity of the goods;  
3. The laboratories, in which the goods are tested, shall be determined at the discretion of the 
relevant authority or at the request of the consumer or provider;  
4. The laboratory shall issue a report on the validity of the goods within the period specif ied by the 
relevant authority, and the report shall be circulated to the provider and consumer;  
5. The report issued by laboratory shall be final and shall be relied upon by the relevant authority in 
determining the validity of the good; and  
6. The provi der shall test the goods outside the country at its own expense in the absence of a 
specialised laboratory in the country.  
 
Article  (37)  
Procedures of Testing Goods in Laboratories  
1. Goods test procedures and time periods required there -for shall be as f ollows:  
a. Samples of suspected goods shall be tested and analysed at the laboratories of the concerned 
authority or accredited laboratories;  
b. Taking into account the periods specified for the goods test in any law or standard, the test shall 
be carrie d out within a period not exceeding (15) fifteen days for foodstuffs, and within a period 
not exceeding (30) thirty days for other goods;  
c. The period mentioned in Paragraph (b) of this clause may be extended for a similar period for 
one time if the exam ination requires a longer period, provided that the provider shall be notified 
of that in writing; and  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  21 
 d. The provider shall be notified of the test results within (3) three working days of receiving the 
test results.  
2. If the goods is found to be inval id, the provider shall bear the costs of test and analysis in 
accordance with the provisions of this Article .  
 
Article  (38)  
Judicial Seizure Report  
The competent judicial officer shall write a report on the violation or take samples in the presence 
of the owner of the commercial store or his representative, and he shall record in the report the 
measures he took, particularly the following:  
1. The dat e, hour and place of writing the report, and the type of violation, if any;  
2. The name and capacity of the reporter, and the details of the order issued assigning him to the 
task or the mission, if any;  
3. The name and capacity of the person against who m the procedures were made;  
4. The result of examining the place where the goods were deposited;  
5. Documents proving the source of the goods;  
6. The procedures taken to prepare the samples, including the method and manner of taking and 
transporting the  sample, and the number of samples;  
7. All the information recorded on the goods being seized; and  
8. The signature of the store owner or his representative on the report, or evidence of his refusal to 
sign.  
 
Article  (39)  
Administrative Seizure of Goods  
1. In the event that there is sufficient evidence on violation of the provisions of the law and this 
Resolution that would harm the consumer health and safety, the suspected goods and tools with the 
provider shall be seized temporarily, and on his re sponsibility. The competent judicial officer shall 
write a report proving the condition of the goods and tools seized in the presence of the 
establishment owner or the person responsible for its management, provided that the report shall 
include the same d ata and procedures stipulated in Article  (38) of this Resolution;  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  22 
 2. The concerned authority shall decide whether these goods and tools harm the health and safety 
of the consumer or not within (30) thirty days from the date of seizure. The concerned autho rities 
may extend this period when the nature of the goods or the test procedures so require, and in this 
regard it may seek assistance and coordinate with the relevant authorities;  
3. The seized goods and tools shall be released when it becomes clear to the concerned authority 
that they do not harm the health and safety of the consumer, or when a judicial sentence is issued 
for their release;  
4. The concerned authority shall notify the provider when the decision to release the seized goods 
and tools is i ssued; and  
5. In all cases, the provider shall bear the costs of test and analysis in accordance with the provisions 
of this Article .  
 
Article  (40)  
E-Commerce  
1. Subject to the provisions of this Resolution, the provider, who works in E -commerce, shall state in 
a clear and legible manner, according to the nature of each good, the basic data stipulated in the 
rules, laws, technical regulations, and approved stand ards, particularly the following:  
a. Name of the producer and the importer, along with their respective trade name, address and 
trademark;  
b. Name, type, nature, components, and amount of the goods, whether in relation to weight, size, 
number, measure, e nergy, standard, or any other measures that affect the value of the goods, and 
not displaying it in a manner different from the nature, size, or standards of the product;  
c. Attach a detailed statement according to the nature of each good that clearly inc ludes the 
components and standards of the goods in its original language in addition to Arabic language;  
d. The country of origin (the name of the country preceded by the phrase: “Made in”)and the 
country of export (if any);  
e. Production date and shelf life;  
f. Warning of the dangers that may result from the wrong use of the goods;  
g. Terms and conditions of goods return or exchange; and  
h. Conditions of trade, storage and method of use.  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  23 
 2. The provider, who works in E - commerce, shall provide all supporting documents for the 
conformity of the goods according to the rules, laws, technical regulations and standards, and shall 
place the conformity badge on the web page; and  
3. The provider shall bear the responsibility for any defect in the goods provided through a third 
party using its electronic platform for sale.  
 
Article  (41)  
Administrative Fines and Penalties  
The Ministry may impose one or more administrative penalties on the provider u pon its violation of 
any of the acts that occur in violation of any of the provisions of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 
referred to and this Resolution, which are set out in Annexes No. (1) and (2) attached to this 
Resolution.  
 
Article  (42)  
Executive Resolu tions  
The Minister shall issue the Resolutions necessary to apply the provisions of this Resolution.  
 
Article  (43)  
Publication and Entry into Force  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force three months 
after the  date of its publication.  
 
 
 
Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us:  
Date: Dhu al -Hijja 15, 1444  H  
Corresponding to: July 03, 2023  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  24 
  
 
Annex (1): Administrative penalties may be imposed on the provider  
The Ministry may impose one or more administrative penalties on the provider when it violates the 
acts that represent violation of any of the provisions of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 referred to and 
this Resolution, which are set out in Annex No. (2) att ached to this Resolution, taking into account 
that penalties shall be in a graded manner, and as follows:  
1. Notice;  
2. Administrative fine according to Annex No. (2) attached hereto, and the penalty shall be 
doubled in case of repetition;  
3. Temporary administrative closure for a period of no less than (24) twenty -four hours and no 
more than (90) ninety days;  
4. Suspension of practising the activity in whole or in part for a period of no less than (24) twenty -
four hours and no more than (90) ninety day s; and  
5. Cancellation of the licence and striking off from the commercial register.  
 
  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  25 
 Annex (2): Table of financial penalties may be imposed on the provider  
 
Penalty  Legal Reference  Violation  No.  
AED 
100.000  Article  7, Clause 2  
Federal 
Law No. 
(15) of  
 Failure to warn the consumer if the use 
of the goods is dangerous.  1 
AED 
100.000  Article  8, Clause 2  Announcing the prices of goods and 
services provided in a misleading 
manner.  2 
AED 
100.000  Article  8, Clause 4  The provider fails to issue the invoice in 
Arabic.  3 
AED 
250.000  Article  10, Clause 
1 The provider fails to provide the 
required spare p arts, maintenance, 
replace the goods or refund the goods 
price.  4 
AED 
250.000  Article  10, Clause 
1 The provider does not comply with the 
after -sales service for the sold goods 
within the specified time period.  5 
AED 
250.000  Article  10, Clause 
2 The provider fails to provide warranty to 
the service provided and ensure it is free 
from defect or fault within a period of 
time appropriate to the nature of that 
service.  6 
AED 
250.000  Article  12 The provider fails to repair, replace, 
return, refund the goods, or re -perform 
service free of charge if a defect is found 
in the goods or service.  7 
  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  26 
 AED 
250.000  Article  15 
2020 on 
Consumer 
Protection  
 The provider fails to include the contracts 
concluded that provide for repair, 
maintenance, or after -sales service, or the 
return, replacement, or refund of the 
goods within a specified period of time 
since the defect or fault appears therein.  8 
AED 
250.000  Article  16, Clause 
1 The commercial agent or distributor fails 
to implement all the warranties provided 
by the producer or agent of the goods or 
service subject of the agency.  9 
AED 
250.000  Article  16, Clause 
2 The commercial agent or distributor fails 
to provide a similar good to the consumer 
to use free of charge if the 
implementation of the warranties shall 
exceed a period of (7) seven days.  10 
AED 
250.000  Article  17 The good or service is described in a 
manner that contains incorrect data or 
advertised in a misleading way.  11 
AED 
200.000  Article  20 The provider fails to ensure that the goods 
or services comply with the standard 
specifications, conditions and controls 
related to health and safety.  12 
AED 
250.000  Article  21 The provider includes, when contracting 
with the consumer, any condition that 
may harm it.  13 
AED 
100.000  Article  26 The provider fails to write data, 
advertisements and contracts related to 
the consumer in Arabic.  14 
AED 50.000  Article  3 The provider fails to indicate on the goods 
cover or packaging or in the place where 15 Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  27 
 it is shown, in a clear and legible manner, 
the basic data related to the goods.  
AED 50.000  Article  4 The provider fails to attach with the goods 
the data on how to use and install it.  16 
AED 
100.000  Article 5 The provider fails to announce the prices 
of goods and services clearly and legibly.  17 
AED 
100.000  Article  6 The provider fails to give the consumer an 
invoice that proves dealing or contracting 
with it on the goods or service.  18 
  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  28 
 AED 
100.000  Article  7 
Cabinet 
Resolution 
No. ( ) of 
2023 
regarding 
the 
Executive 
Regulations 
of Federal 
Law No. 
(15) of 
2020 on 
Consumer 
Protection.  
 The provider, who offers used or 
refurbished goods or goods that include a 
defect not resulting in any harm to  the 
health and safety of the consumer, fails to 
announce the condition of the goods 
clearly and legibly on the goods.  19 
AED 
100.000  Article 11 The provider fails to provide the consumer 
with the document indicating the 
warranty.  20 
AED 
250.000  Article  13 The provider fails to provide warranty to 
the service provided to the consumer 
within a period appropriate to the nature 
of each service or the longest period 
agreed upon.  21 
AED 
300.000  Article  14 The provider fails to provide the spare 
parts necessary for the operation and 
repair of the goods.  22 
AED 
100.000  Article 16 The provider fails to establish a written 
mechanism for providing spare parts, 
maintenance service, and guarantees in 
accordance with the conditions set by the 
Manufacturer.  23 
AED 50.000  Article  17 The provider fails to specify in writing a 
specific pe riod for the completion of 
maintenance work for the goods under the 
warranty.  24 
AED 
300.000  Article  18  Obligations of the provider when 
providing periodic maintenance services 
for the good under warranty.  25 Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  29 
 AED 
250.000  Article  19 The provider fails to provide warranty to 
the goods during the warranty period 
specified by the producer or the 
commercial agent.  26 
AED 
500.000  Article  20 The provider fails to inform the concerned 
party and the consumer, upon discovering 
a defect in t he goods or a danger in its use, 
of the potential damages and how to 
prevent them while usage.  27 
AED 
250.000  Article  24, Clause 
1 The provider fails to provide the concerned 
authority with a report on the goods that 
have been recovered.  28 
AED 
1,000.000  Article  24, Clause 
2 The provider closes the return file before 
the permission of the concerned party.  29 
  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  30 
 AED 
250.000  Article  25  The provider fails to return the goods that 
do not have the warranty of the 
commercial agent or distributor and  give 
their price back to the consumer.  30 
AED 
200.000  Article  26, 
Paragraph 1   The provider fails to notify the consumer 
of any repairs or changes to the goods 
and obtain the approval of the consumer 
on the goods repair costs, the period it 
takes for repair, and the warranty period.  31 
AED 
100.000  Article  26, 
Paragraph 1   The provi der fails to issue an invoice to 
the consumer after the repair process, 
specifying the parts that have been 
replaced, their price, and whether those 
parts are new, used, or refurbished.  32 
AED 
500.000  Article  27, Clause 
2  The provider fails to provide a n 
alternative goods for the consumer to 
benefit from free of charge, until it is 
replaced or repaired in the event that a 
defect in the goods is found for reasons 
that provider bears responsibility for.  33 
AED 
500.000  Article  28, Clause 
1  The provider fails to provide a new 
replacement goods with the same 
category and specifications of the original 
one or at its price at the time of purchase, 
in the event that it fails to repair a 
recurring defect during the warranty 
period.  34 
AED 
100.00 0 Article  28, Clause 
2  The provider fails to bear all 
transportation costs or to send 35 Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  31 
 technicians to where the vehicle broke -
down or the consumer residence.  
AED 
100.000  Article  29, Clause 
3  The provider fails to bear the repair costs 
or compensate th e consumer for the price 
of the goods or the price of the damaged 
part thereof.  36 
AED 
100.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph a   Discrimination between consumers 
when selling the goods or benefiting from 
the service.  37 
AED 
200.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph b   Hide the good, refuse to sell it, refuse to 
provide the service, force to purchase a 
certain quantity  38 
 
  Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  32 
    of the goods, stipulate another goods or 
service with it, or restrict the use of the 
service to conditions that by their nature 
are not related to the service subject of 
the original transaction.   
AED 
100.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph c   Charge a higher price than the 
announced price by any means of 
advertisement.  39 
AED 
100.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph d   Sell goods or services at prices below cost 
to create a monopoly situation.  40 
AED 
100.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph c   More than one prov ider ally to cause 
harm to the national economy.  41 
AED 
100.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph h   The provider agrees, explicitly or 
implicitly, to fix, reduce or raise the price 
in a declared or secret manner, in a way 
that harms the national economy.  42 
AED 
100.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph e   Competitors agree to divide the market 
among themselves acc ording to 
geographical distribution or sales 
volume.  43 
AED 
100.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph f   The provider purchases competing goods 
or services from the market for the 
purpose of controlling prices.  44 
AED 
100.000  Article  32, 
Paragraph g   Refuse, stop, or limit the quantity of 
production, supply, or offer of goods or 
services.  45 
AED 
100.000  Article  40  The provider, who works in the electronic 
commerce, fails to indicate in a clear and 
legible manner, according to the nature 46 Cabinet Resolution No. (66) of 2023, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (15) of 2020 Concerning 
Consumer Protection  33 
 of each good , the basic data stipulated in 
Article  (40) herein.  
 