Cabinet Resolution of 20 16 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 4 Concerning Small and 
Medium Enterprises  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (35) of 2016  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (2) of 2014  
Concerning Small and Medium -Sized  Enterprises  
 
The Cabinet,  
- Having perused:  
- The Constitution ; and  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competencies of the Ministries and Powers of the 
Ministers, as amended;  and  
- Federal Law No. (2) of 2014 Concerning the Small and Medium -Sized Enterprises; and  
- Acting upon the proposal of the Minister of Economy and approval of the Council of 
Ministers;  
Resolves:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
For the purposes of this Resolution, the following words and phrases bear the meanings 
ascribed to each, unless the context requires otherwise:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Ministry  : The Ministry of Economy.  
Minister  : The Minister of Economy.  
Law  : Federal Law No. (2) of 2014 Concerning Small and Medium -Sized 
Enterprises.  
SMEs  : : Any sole proprietorship engaged in an economic activity, and of small, 
medium, or micro size . 
Council  : The Council of Small and Medium -Sized Enterprises . 
Program  : The National Program for Small and Medium -Sized Enterprises . Cabinet Resolution of 20 16 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 4 Concerning Small and 
Medium Enterprises  2 
  
Article (2)  
Participation in International Fairs  
For the purposes of allocating an adequate space for owners of the SMEs that are members of 
the Program to showcase the national products in international fairs in which the State 
participates, the following conditions shall be met:  
1. A proof that these SMEs are wholly owned by nationals of the State shall be provided;  
2. The owner of the S ME registered as a member of the local funds, associations or programs 
concerned with SMEs, or any other entity approved by the Council, shall obtain a letter of 
nomination to participate in the fair;  
3. The SME shall have engaged in its business for at least  six months;  
4. Any other conditions as prescribed by the Council.  
 
Article (3)  
Provision of Information on International Fairs  
The necessary information on foreign markets shall be provided to the owners of SMEs that 
are members of the Program according to t he following:  
1. Every Ministry, Departments of Economic Development, Chambers of Commerce and 
Industry in the State, and funds and institutions concerned with local SMEs shall make 
available the information referred to in this Article.  
2. The Ministry shall sub mit the recommendations and periodical reports on foreign markets 
as well as the necessary information to the Council to create a database of SMEs in 
coordination and partnership with concerned entities.  
3. The Ministry shall take the necessary measures to ci rculate the information mentioned in 
Paragraph (2) of this Article to owners of the concerned SMEs.  
4. The Council and competent entities, including the Ministry, shall always put in place the 
advanced technology to make available the necessary information on  foreign markets for 
owners of the SMEs.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 16 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 4 Concerning Small and 
Medium Enterprises  3 
  
Article (4)  
Additional Facilities to SMEs  
Every person who obtains any information related to the SMEs database pursuant to Article 
(3) of this Resolution shall not use such information for any purposes in contravention of the 
legislation in force in the State or in detriment to third parties.  
 
Article (5)  
Additional Facilities to SMEs  
The additional facilities granted to SMEs that have divisions specialized in research, 
development and innovation, that real ized an economic success, include:  
1. The priority to receive the facilities and incentives stipulated in the Law;  
2. The priority to have a space in the local and foreign fairs organized by the State to 
showcase the national products.  
 
Article (6)  
The additional facilities granted to inventors and patent proprietors in the State include:  
1. The priority to receive the facilities and incentives stipulated in the Law;  
2. The priority to receive financial facilities to complete the research and development stage s 
towards innovation and invention, to serve the commercial marketing as defined by the 
Council;  
3. Invitation to participate in training and research programs in which the concerned entities 
participate outside the State in order to acquire the skills, exper tise and best practices 
necessary for their work;  
4. The priority to participate in the local fairs organized by the relevant entities concerned 
with innovation and invention.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 16 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 4 Concerning Small and 
Medium Enterprises  4 
 Article (7)  
Insurance on SME  
For the owners of SMEs to obtain the facilities and i ncentives provided for in the Law and this 
Resolution, insurance contracts shall be taken out for SMEs with an approved insurer in the 
State. Such insurance contracts shall include the following types:  
1. Insurance against fire and accidents  
2. Insurance for equ ipment and machinery  
 
Article (8)  
Final  Provisions  
The Minister shall issue necessary decisions for the execution of the provisions hereof.  
 
Article (9)  
Every provision contradicting or contravening the provisions of the present Resolution is 
repealed.  
 
Article (10)  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force from the 
following day of its publication.  
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us:  
Dated: 28 Dhu al -Qaida 1437 A.H.  
Corresponding to: 31 August 2016 A.D.  