Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  1 Cabinet Resolution No. (37) of 2014  
Concerning the Executive Regulation of Federal Law No. (4) of 2012  
Regulatin g Competition  
 
The Cabinet , 
- After perusal of the Constitution,  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972  concerning the scopes of Ministries and the powers of 
Ministers, and the amendments thereto;  
- Federal Law No. (4) of 2012  Concerning the Regulation of Competition,  
- Upon the proposal of the Minister of Economy, and the approval of the Cabinet,  
Hereby promulgates the following:  
  
Article  (1) 
Definitions  
In the application of the provisions of this resolution, the following wor ds and phrases shall 
have the meanings, respectively, set forth against the same unless the context otherwise 
requires:  
 The State  : United Arab Emirates.  
 The Law  : Federal Law No. (4) of 2012 Concerning the Regulation 
of Competition.  
 The Minister  : The Minister of Economy.  
 The Competent 
Authority  : Competition Authority at the Ministry.  
 Establishment  : Any natural or legal person or consortium of such 
persons engaging in an economic activity, regardless of 
the legal status thereof.  
 The Relevant Market  : The commodities or services or the total of the same that 
can be replaceable with other items, or selectable among 
other alternatives to meet a specific consumer need in a Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  2 particular geographic area; based on the price, 
specificities and aspects of use thereof.  
 Agreements  : Any agreements, contracts, arrangements, joint 
ventures, joint practices or cooperation between two 
or more establishments, or any resolutions issued by 
the consortium thereof; whether written, oral, 
explicit, implicit, overt or covert.  
 Dominant Position  : The position that enables any establishment, 
whether solely or in collaboration with other 
establishments, to exercise control or influence over 
the Relevant Market.  
 The Economic 
Concentrat ion : Every act gives rise to a full or partial transfer (merger 
or acquisition) for the ownership or usufructs of an 
establishment's assets, rights, shares, stocks or 
obligations to another establishment that is likely to 
enable one establishment (or a co nsortium of 
establishments) to control, whether directly or 
indirectly, another establishment or consortium of 
establishments.  
 The Committee  : Competition Regulation Committee, incorporated 
under the provisions of the Law.  
  
Chapter One  
Regulatory Procedures for the Exclusions  
Article  (2) 
Controls for Notifications  
1. Any establishment seeks to get an Exclusion for any restrictive agreements or dominant 
market practices, set forth in Articles 5 and 6 of the Law, shall priorly notify the 
Competent Authority of the same, using the form prepared by the Competent Authority 
for this purpose, along with the following documents:  Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  3 a. A duly certified copy of the Concerned Establishments' memorandum of 
association or articles of incorporation.  
b. A list includes the names of the shareholders or partners in each of the Concerned 
Establishments and the rates of contribution or the shares thereof.  
c. A report on the economic impact of the Exclusion application stating the positive 
effects thereof and the role o f the same in promoting the economic development.  
2. The notification and accompanying documents shall be submitted to the Competent 
Authority, signed by the legal representatives of the establishments seeking to get an 
Exclusion for any restrictive agreement s or dominant market practices, under a duly 
certified power of attorney and upon a receipt of the same.  
3. The notification shall be submitted in three copies in Arabic; however, a translation for 
the same may be submitted in English.  
4. The notification shall be submitted in three copies in the original language thereof, as 
provided for in Clause (1) of this Article, along with a certified translation for the same 
into Arabic in the case of being written in a foreign language.  
5. Any establishment seeks to maintai n the confidentiality of the notification and the 
documents thereof shall write the word (confidential) thereon, further to providing non -
confidential summaries for the same, on which the word (non -confidential) is written, 
provided that such summaries are  sufficient to indicate the content of such confidential 
data.  
6. The Competent Authority shall conduct a formal examination for the notification and the 
supporting documents thereof. The Competent Authority may require the Concerned 
Establishments to provide  any additional documents. By the end of the formal 
examination, a notification regarding the completion of the formal requirements of the 
Exclusion shall be issued to the Concerned Establishments.  
7. The Competent Authority shall maintain a special record in  which the Exclusions of any 
restrictive agreements or dominant market practices are recorded.  
  
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  4 Article  (3) 
Deliberation of the Notification  
1. The Competent Authority shall consider the application for Exclusion in order to ensure 
that the Concerned Establishments have fulfilled the following procedures:  
a. to priorly notify the Ministry of any restrictive agreements or dominant market 
practices subject to Exclusion.  
b. to prove that these agreements or practices would enhance the economic 
development, improve the performance of establishments and the competitive 
ability thereof, develop production or distribution systems, or result in certain 
consumer benefits.  
2. Whilst deliberating such Exclusion, the Competent Authority may require the Conc erned 
Establishments to provide any additional data or information it deems necessary to 
decide on the same.  
3. The Competent Authority may require the parties, it deems susceptible to the Exclusion, 
to provide the standpoints and supporting data thereon, wit hin a period not exceeding 
(15) "fifteen" days from the date of notification by the same.  
4. The Competent Authority shall prepare a detailed report on the Exclusion, includes a 
statement of all procedures and actions taken on the same, the underlying data, a nd the 
assessment of the application in legal and economic terms; especially with regard to its 
impact on the level of competition in the Relevant Market, further to make a 
recommendation on the proposed resolution thereon.  
5. The Competent Authority shall su bmit the report, referred to in Clause (4) of this Article, 
to the Committee. Accordingly, the Committee shall submit its recommendations on the 
Exclusion to the Minister, within a period not exceeding (14) "fourteen" days from the 
date of the receipt ther eof.  
6. The Competent Authority may ask the assistance of any party it deems appropriate, or 
make consultations with other authorities in the State so as to accomplish the report, 
referred to in Clause (4) of this Article.  
  
 Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  5 Article  (4) 
The Minister's Resolu tions on the Exclusion  
1. Upon the recommendation of the Committee, the Mister shall decide on the Exclusion 
within (90) "ninety" days from the date of notifying the Concerned Establishments of 
receipt of the application thereof and fulfillment of all require d conditions; however, the 
Minister may extend this period by a further 45 days "forty -five" days.  
2. If no resolution is issued by the Minister within the period, referred to in Clause (1) of this 
Article, the Exclusion shall be deemed accepted.  
3. The Minister  may, temporarily, approve the Exclusion of any restrictive agreements or 
dominant market practices until issuing a final resolution thereon, provided that the 
period of such temporary Exclusion does not exceed (30) "thirty" days.  
4. The Minister shall issue a reasoned resolution on the Exclusion of any restrictive 
agreements or dominant market practices, as follows:  
a. to approve the Exclusion of any restrictive agreements or dominant market 
practices.  
b. to reject the Exclusion of any restrictive agreements or dominant market 
practices.  
c. to approve the Exclusion of any restrictive agreements or dominant market 
practices, provided that the Concerned Establishments undertake to comply with 
the conditions and obligations specified by the Minister for t he purposes of 
implementing the same.  
5. The Minister may revoke the approval, referred to in Clause (4) (a) of this Article, if it 
appears that:  
a. The circumstances under which the approval has been granted no longer exist.  
b. The Concerned Establishments have br eached any conditions or obligations on 
which the approval has been granted.  
c. The approval has been granted on the basis of misleading or incorrect 
information.  
6. The Competent Authority shall maintain a special record in which the resolutions issued 
by the M inister on the applications for Exclusion are recorded.  Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  6 Article  (5) 
Approval of the Exclusion Amendments  
1. Any establishment obtains an Exclusion for any restrictive agreements or dominant 
market practices shall notify the Competent Authority of the draft of  any amendments 
thereto within (30) "thirty" days of the same.  
2. Whilst deliberating the proposed amendments to the Exclusion, the Competent 
Authority may require the Concerned Establishments or the parties, it deems susceptible 
to the Exclusion, to provide any additional data or information it deems necessary to 
decide on the same.  
3. The Competent Authority shall prepare a detailed report includes an assessment of the 
proposed amendments to the Exclusion in legal and economic terms; especially with 
regard to t he impact thereof on the level of competition in the Relevant Market, further 
to making a recommendation on the proposed resolution thereon.  
4. The Competent Authority shall submit the report, referred to in Clause (3) of this Article, 
to the Committee within  a period not exceeding (14) "fourteen" days from the date of 
preparing the same.  
5. The Mister shall decide on the proposed amendments to the Exclusion within (90) 
"ninety" days from the date of notifying the Concerned Establishments of receipt of the 
applic ation thereof and fulfillment of all required conditions; however, the Minister may 
extend this period by a further 45 days "forty -five" days.  
  
Article  (6) 
Assessment of Competition  
The competent authority shall consider the dominant market practices, referred to in articles 
(6) and (7) of the Law, pursuant to the following:  
1. The Relevant Market.  
2. The market share of the Concerned Establishments.  
3. The revenues and assets of the Concerned Establishments.  
4. The actual or potential level of competition for a number of competitors.  
5. The price or quantitative variance in commodities or services from the expected levels in Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  7 the absence of such practices.  
6. The production volume and demand of the relevant commodities or services.  
7. The level of impact on supply or aggregate demand of the relevant commodities or 
services.  
8. The diversity of the relevant commodities or services.  
9. The impact of the practice on the market access, expansion or exit therefrom.  
10. The ease of access to financial facilities from the capital markets.  
11. The time during which such practices emerge.  
12. The date of competition among competitors in a certain market.  
13. The impact on consumers.  
  
Chapter  Two  
Regulatory Procedures for Economic Concentration  
Article  (7) 
Submission of an Application for Approval of an Economic Concentration  
1. The Concerned Establishments shall submit a written application for the approval of the 
Minister on completion of an Economic Concentration in which the total share of the 
establishments or the parties thereof exceeds the ratio specified by the Cabinet for the 
total transactions in the Relevant Market. This Economic Concentration is likely to affect 
the level of competition in the Relevant Market, or create or promote a dominant 
position therein.  
2. The application  for approval of an Economic Concentration shall be submitted within 
(30) "thirty" days at least from the date of concluding the draft contract or agreement 
thereof, on the form prepared by the Competent Authority for this purpose, along with 
the following  documents:  
a. A duly certified copy of the Concerned Establishments' memorandum of 
association or articles of incorporation.  
b. The draft contract or agreement of the Economic Concentration.  
c. A duly certified copy of the financial statements, for the last two fi scal years, of 
the establishments engaged in the Economic Concentration and the subsidiaries Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  8 thereof.  
d. A list includes the names of the shareholders or partners in each of the Concerned 
Establishments and the rates of contribution or the shares thereof.  
e. A report on the economic impact of the Economic Concentration stating the 
positive effects thereof along with the proposed commitments and actions taken 
by the Concerned Establishments to reduce the potential negative effects of the 
same.  
3. The application and the documents, referred to in Clause (2) of this Article, shall be 
submitted to the Competent Authority, signed by the legal representative of the 
establishments engaged in the Economic Concentration, under a duly certified power of 
attorney and upon a rec eipt of the same.  
4. The application shall be submitted in three copies in Arabic; however, a translation for 
the same may be submitted in English.  
5. The documents, referred to in Clause (2) of this Article, shall be submitted in three copies 
in the original language thereof, along with a certified translation for the same into Arabic 
in the case of being written in a foreign language.  
6. Any establishment seeks to maintain the confidentiality of the application thereof shall 
write the word (confidential ) thereon, further to providing non -confidential summaries 
for the same, on which the word (non -confidential) is written, provided that such 
summaries are sufficient to indicate the content of such confidential data.  
7. The Competent Authority shall conduct a  formal examination for the Application for 
approval of the Economic Concentration and the supporting documents thereof. For 
accomplishing such procedure, the Competent Authority may require the Concerned 
Establishments to provide any additional documents.  By the end of the formal 
examination, a notification regarding the completion of the formal requirements of the 
application for approval of the Economic Concentration shall be issued to the Concerned 
Establishments.  
8. The Competent Authority shall maintain a special record in which the approvals of the 
Economic Concentration are recorded.  
  Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  9 Article  (8) 
Deliberation of the Application for Approval of the Economic 
Concentration  
1. The Competent Authority shall consider the application of the Economic Concentration 
pursuant to the following indicators:  
a. Actual and potential level of competition in the Relevant Market.  
b. New establishments' ease of access to the Relevant Market.  
c. The extent of the potential impact on the prices of the relevant commodities or  
services.  
d. Whether there is a systemic barriers affecting the entry of new competitors.  
e. How likely is the emergence of a dominant position in the Relevant Market.  
f. The extent of the potential impact on innovation, creativity and technical 
competence.  
g. The ex tent of contribution to the promotion of investment or export, or support 
of the national establishments' ability to compete in the international 
marketplace.  
h. The extent of the impact on the interests of consumers.  
2. Whilst deliberating the application for a pproval of the Economic Concentration, the 
Competent Authority may require the Concerned Establishments to provide any 
additional data or information it deems necessary to decide on the same.  
3. The Competent Authority may require the parties, it deems suscep tible to the Economic 
Concentration, to provide the standpoints and supporting data thereon, within a period 
not exceeding (15) "fifteen" days from the date of notification by the same.  
4. The Competent Authority may hold meetings with the Concerned Establish ments or 
relevant parties so as to consider the viewpoints and statements of the same on the 
Economic Concentration.  
5. The Competent Authority shall prepare a detailed report on the Economic Concentration, 
includes a statement of all procedures and actions t aken on the same, the underlying 
data, and the assessment of the application in legal and economic terms; especially with 
regard to the positive and negative effects of the Economic Concentration on the level of Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  10 competition in the Relevant Market, further to making a recommendation on the 
proposed resolution thereon.  
6. The Competent Authority may ask the assistance of any party it deems appropriate, or 
make consultations with other authorities in the State so as to accomplish the report, 
referred to in Clause  (5) of this Article.  
7. The Competent Authority shall submit the report of the application for approval of the 
Economic Concentration to the Minister so as to decide on the same.  
  
Articl e (9)  
The Minister's Resolutions on the Applications for Approval of th e 
Economic Concentration  
1. The Mister shall decide on the application for approval of the Economic Concentration 
within (90) "ninety" days from the date of notifying the Concerned Establishments of 
receipt of the application thereof and fulfillment of all required conditions; however, the 
Minister may extend this period by a further 45 days "forty -five" days.  
2. If no resolution is issued by the Minister within the period, referred to in Clause (1) of this 
Article, the application of the Eco nomic Concentration shall be deemed accepted.  
3. The Minister shall issue a reasoned resolution on the application for approval of the 
Economic Concentration, as follows:  
a. To approve the Economic Concentration if does not negatively affect competition 
or if it has positive economic impacts on competition outweigh the negative 
impacts thereof.  
b. To approve the Economic Concentration, provided that the Concerned 
Establishments undertake to comply with the conditions and obligations 
specified by the Minister for the purposes of implementing the same.  
c. To reject the Economic Concentration.  
4. The Minister may revoke the approval, referred to in Clause (3) of this Article, if it appears 
that:  
a. The circumstances under which the approval has been granted n o longer exist.  
b. The Concerned Establishments have breached any conditions or obligations on Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  11 which the approval has been granted.  
c. The approval has been granted on the basis of misleading or incorrect 
information. In that case, the Competent Authority shall take appropriate legal 
actions so as to sue and prosecute the Concerned Establishments in breach, in 
pursuance of the regulations applicable in this regard.  
d. The Competent Authority shall maintain a special record in which the resolutions 
issued by the Mini ster on the applications for approval of the Economic 
Concentration are recorded, in accordance with the form prepared by the 
Competent Authority for the same.  
e. During the period referred to in Clause (1) of this Article, the Concerned 
Establishments shall not carry out any actions or proceedings relating to the 
completion of the Economic Concentration.  
 
Chapter  Three  
Regulatory Procedures for Complaints Investigation  
Article  (10)  
Complaints Submittal  
1. Any concerned person shall has  the right to file a Complaint to the Competent Authority 
on any violation of the provisions of the Law, using the form prepared by the Competent 
Authority for this purpose.  
2. The Competent Authority shall maintain a record of Complaints; to be serialized 
according to the order of receipt thereof, stating the Complaint, the record date, the name 
of the Complainant and the subject of the same.  
3. The Complaint shall include the following data and information:  
a. The Complainant (s).  
b. The Defendant (s).  
c. The provisions  of the Law underlying the Complaint.  
d. The facts relevant to the violation of the provisions of the Law.  
e. The practices claimed to be in contradiction with the provisions of the Law.  
f. The proofs and supporting documents of the Complaint.  Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  12 4. The Complaint shall b e submitted along with the data and information, referred to in 
Clause (3) of this Article, to the Competent Authority upon a receipt for the Complaint. 
The receipt of the Complaint shall not be deemed as an acceptance for the same.  
5. The Complaint shall be submitted in writing or electronically, in accordance with the 
regulations specified by the Competent Authority for the same.  
6. The Complaint shall be submitted after being duly signed by the Complainant (s), or the 
legal representatives thereof under a duly  certified power of attorney.  
7. The Complaint shall be submitted together with the data and information, referred to in 
Clause (3) (f) of this Article, in three copies in Arabic; however, a translation for the same 
may be submitted in English.  
8. The Complaint shall be submitted together with the data and information, referred to in 
Clause (3) (f) of this Article, in three copies in the original language thereof along with a 
certified translation for the same into Arabic in the case of being written in a foreign  
language.  
9. Any establishment seeks to maintain the confidentiality of the Complaints shall write the 
word (confidential) thereon, further to providing non -confidential summaries for the 
same, on which the word (non -confidential) is written, provided that s uch summaries are 
sufficient to indicate the content of such confidential data.  
10. The Competent Authority shall consider the Complaint and the supporting documents 
thereof. Furthermore, the Competent Authority may require the Complainant to provide 
any data it considers necessary to deliberate the Complaint within a period not exceeding 
(15) "fifteen" days from the date of the same.  
11. Upon completion of the deliberation of Complaint, the Competent Authority shall issue 
notice to the Complainant as follows:  
a. To a ccept the Complaint on the ground that there is enough data allow for 
conducting an investigation into the same.  
b. To reject the Complaint for the lack of sufficient data necessary to open an 
investigation into the same.  
  
 Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  13 Article  (11)  
Automatic Investigation  
1. The Competent Authority shall automatically open an investigation into any violation of 
the provisions of the Law and this resolution in case it has reasonable grounds and 
sufficient data concerning the existence of practices that are likely to breach, restrict or 
prevent competition.  
2. The Competent Authority shall take all necessary actions in respect of the offense, 
referred to in Clause (1) of this Article, in accordance with the procedures set forth on the 
investigation of the complaint.  
  
Article  (12)  
Investigation of the Complaint  
1. Upon acceptance of the Complaint, the Competent Authority shall, within (10) "ten" 
days, notify the Defendants and all Concerned Parties of the subject of the Complaint.  
2. The notification, referred to in Clause (1 ) of this Article, shall include a brief statement of 
the most important aspects of the Complaint; in particular the following:  
a. The practices claimed to be in breach, restrict or prevent competition, further to 
the provisions of the Law found in contradict ion therewith.  
b. The right of the Defendant to defend the same and to respond to the allegations 
contained in the Complaint.  
c. The term granted to the Defendant so as to respond, in written, to the practice, 
subject of the Complaint.  
3. The Competent Authority sh all investigate the Complaint relying on the data, 
information and documents submitted by the Concerned Parties of the Complaint.  
4. Whilst investigating the Complaint, the Competent Authority shall take into account to 
provide equal opportunities for all Concerned Parties to defend the interests thereof, and 
to enable the same to submit the defense, standpoints and comments thereof on the 
allegations, subject of the Complaint.  
5. Whilst investigating the Complaint, the Competent Authorit y may request any data, 
documents or statements from the Concerned Parties, or other parties as deemed Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  14 essential for the same.  
6. The Competent Authority shall request any further data within a period not exceeding 
(30) "thirty" of sending a request for the s ame. The Competent Authority may extend the 
preceding period for a similar term provided that such extension does not affect the 
investigation proceedings.  
7. The Competent Authority shall has the right to take any action it deems necessary for the 
investigat ion, including the convention of meetings for the Concerned Parties.  
  
Articl e (13)  
The Minister's Resolutions on the Complaint  
1. The Competent Authority shall prepare a detailed report on the Complaint includes a 
statement of all the procedures and actions taken thereby a legal assessment of all data, 
information and aspects of defense submitted by the Concerned Parties, further to 
making a recommendation on the proposed resolution thereon.  
2. The Competent Authority shall submit the report, referred to in Clau se (1) of this Article, 
to the Minister within a period not exceeding (10) "ten" days from the date of preparing 
the same.  
3. The Minister shall issue a reasoned resolution on the Complaint within (30) "thirty" days 
from the date of submission thereto.  
4. The Mi nistry shall notify all Concerned Parties of the Minister's resolution within a period 
not exceeding (10) "ten" days from the date of issuance thereof.  
  
Article  (14)  
Reconsideration Applications  
1. Any concerned party shall has  the right to submit an application, in written, to the 
Minister for reconsideration of the resolutions issued thereby, under the provisions of 
the Law, within a period not exceeding (14) "fourteen" days from the notification thereof, 
provided that such ap plication includes the grounds of submission and all supporting 
documents thereof.  
2. The Committee shall deliberate the application and submit the recommendation thereof Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  15 to the Minister within a period not exceeding (10) "ten" days from the date of the 
appli cation's referral thereto.  
3. The Minister shall decide on the application, whether to reject or accept the same, within 
(30) "thirty" days from the date of submission. If no resolution is issued by the Minister 
within the foregoing period, the application sh all be deemed rejected.  
  
Article (15)  
Reconciliation  
1. Except for the acts contrary to the provisions of article (15) of the Law, the Minister or 
the authorized representative thereof may accept reconciliation in respect of any of the 
acts in breach of the provisions of the Law. Such reconciliation shall be made prior to 
filing a penal claim and payment of the parties, in breach of the provisions of the Law, for 
an amount not less than twice the minimum fine.  
2. The reconciliation shall be performed in written and shall be signed by the parties, 
proven to be in breach of the provisions of the Law, along with the commitment of the 
same to pay the amount referred to in Clause (1) of this Article.  
3. Each party shall take a copy of the reconciliation, taking into acco unt to keep a copy of 
the same with the Competent Authority.  
4. The reconciliation shall be binding upon all signatory parties; to enter into force only after 
the submission of the parties, proven to be in breach of the provisions of the Law, for a 
proof of p ayment for the amount referred to in Clause (1) of this Article.  
5. In case any of the parties refrained from implementing the points of reconciliation, the 
Competent Authority shall refer the breaches to the Competent Court . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 2014 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2012 
Regulating Competition  16 Chapter  Four  
Final Provisions  
Article  (16)  
Issuing Resolutions  
The Minister shall issue the executive resolutions necessary to implement the provisions 
hereof.  
  
Article  (17)  
Repeals  
Any provision in any other resolution shall, to the extent it contradicts the provisions her eof, 
be repealed.  
  
Article  (18)  
Publication and Entry into Force  
This resolution shall come into effect as of the date of issuance and shall be published in the 
Official Gazette.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
Issued by us on:  
3rd Muharram 1436 AH;  
Corresponding to: 27th October 2014 AD.  
 