 
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  1 
 Federal Law No. (15) of 2020  
 on Consumer Protection  
 
We, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan                     President of the United Arab Emirates,  
- Having reviewed the Constitution;  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competencies of the Ministries and the Powers of 
the Ministers, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (18) of 1981 on the Organisation of Trade Agencies, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 Issuing the Civil Transactions Law, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (3) of 1987 Issuing the Pena l Code, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (20) of 1991 Issuing the Civil Aviation Law;  
- Federal Law No. (11) of 1992 Issuing the Civil Procedure Law, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (35) of 1992 Issuing the Penal Procedure Law, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (37) of 1992 on Trademarks, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (39) of 1992 on the Production, Import and Circulation of Fertilizers, 
Soil Amendments and Nutrients;  
- Federal Law No. (18) of 1993 Issuing the Commercial Transactions Law;  
- Federal Law No. (28) of 2001 Establishing the Emirates Authority for Standardisation 
and Metrology, as amended;  
- Federal Decree by Law No. (3) of 2003 on Regulating the Telecommunications Sector, 
as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 2006 on Electronic Transac tions and E -Commerce;  
- Federal Law No. (24) of 2006 on Consumer Protection, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (6) of 2007 on the Establishment of the Insurance Authority and the  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  2 
 Regulation of its Operations, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (13) of 2007 on Goods Subje cted to Import and Export Control, as 
amended;  
- Federal Law No. (2) of 2008 on Public Welfare Associations and Institutions;  
- Federal Law No. (4) of 2012 on the Regulation of Competition;  
- Federal Decree by Law No. (5) of 2012 on Combating Cybercrimes, as ame nded;  
- Federal Law No. (2) of 2015 on Commercial Companies, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (8) of 2015 on the Federal Customs Authority;  
- Federal Law No. (10) of 2015 on Food Safety;  
- Federal Law No. (14) of 2016 on Administrative Violations and Sanctions in the  
Federal Government;  
- Federal Law No. (19) of 2016 on Combating Commercial Fraud;  
- Federal Law No. (10) of 2018 on Product Safety;  
- Federal Law No. (8) of 2019 on Medical Products, the Profession of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Facilities;  
- Upon the proposal of  the Minister of Economy as approved by the Cabinet and the 
Federal National Council, and as ratified by the Federal Supreme Council;  
Have issued the following law:  
  
 
 
 
 
  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  3 
 Chapter One  
General Provisions  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In applying the provisions of this Law, the following words and expressions shall have the 
meanings ascribed thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:  
 State  : United Arab Emirates (UAE).  
 Ministry  : Ministry of Economy  
 Minister  : Minister of Economy  
 Competent 
Authority :  : The relevant emirate's local competent authority responsible for 
applying the provisions of this Law.  
 Relevant 
Authorities  
 : The federal or local governmental authorities concerned with 
supervising and controlling the works of the provider in the sectors 
they supervise or control.  
 Committee  : The Supreme Committee for Consumer Protection  
 Department  : The administrative unit concerned with consumer protection 
affairs at the Ministry.  
 Standard 
Specifications  : Obligatory standard specifications approved by the Emirates 
Standardisation and Metrology Authority in the State.  
 
 Consumer  
 : Any natural or legal person obtaining a commodity or service for or 
without a fee to satisfy their own or another person's needs, or 
who is dealt with or contracted in this regard.  
 Provider  
 : Any legal person who offers a service or manufactures, distributes, 
trades in, sells, supplies, exports, imports or plays a part in 
producing or  trading or storing a commodity in order to provide  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  4 
 same to the consumer, or who is dealt with or contracted in this 
regard.  
 Advertiser  
 : Any legal person advertising – by themselves or through a third -
party – a commodity, service or information using  different means 
of advertising and publicity, whether the advertiser is the provider 
themselves or a person licensed to do so.  
 Commodity  
 : Any natural substance or industrial, agricultural, animal, 
manufactured, intellectual or technological product, including the 
primary elements of the substances and the components that go 
into the product.  
 Labelling  
 : The labels or any written, printed, drawn or engraved information 
showing the commodity's components or its maintenance, s torage 
or date of expiry.  
 Price  
 : The price of the commodity or the service, or the usage fee, as the 
case may be.  
 Service  : Everything offered to the consumer whether for or without charge.  
 Defect  
 : A lack in the quality, quantity or efficiency or a difference in the 
outer appearance, size or components of the commodity or service 
resulting from an error in its design, manufacturing, production or 
its being supplied to the consumer, leading to their harm or to 
preventing them totally o r partially from using it; provided the 
defect does not result from an action of the consumer.  
 Flaw  
 : Anything that befalls the commodity after its production or to the 
service after its provision, which causes harm to the consumer or 
prevents them totally or partially from using it; provided the flaw 
does not result from a misconduct from an action of the consumer.   
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  5 
  
 Commercial 
Fraud  
 : Deceiving the dealer by any means, whether by replacing or 
changing the commodity's nature, amount, type, p rice, 
fundamental nature, origin, source, validity or any other matter 
related thereto, or providing false or misleading commercial data 
on the promoted products including defrauding, imitating and 
cheating the service by not complying with the existing le gislation 
in the State or containing false or misleading data.  
 Discounts  
 : Offering to sell the commodity for discounted prices or providing 
the services for lower prices during a specified period using 
whatever means.  
 Promotion  
 : Marketing the commodities or services via a prize draw, or by 
distributing gifts or advertising and publicising the commodities or 
services through special offers or any other means.  
 Warranty  
 : A written or implicit declaration from the provider or the 
representative thereof that the commodity or the service of the 
warranty is free from defects or flaws and complies with the 
standard specifications, and that they undertake to repair any flaw 
or defect occurring to the commodity, re -provid e the service or 
replace the commodity within a specific period.  
 After -Sales 
Services  : Taking care of the commodity or the service by maintaining its 
quality, including spare parts, maintenance and technical support.  
 Recovery  
 : Withdrawing the defected or dangerous commodity through the 
provider, or via the concerned authority or relevant authority in 
the State, or the country of origin or any other state.  
 Misleading : Advertising a commodity or service based upon misleading  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  6 
 Advertising  
 information or omitting fundamental or core information related 
to the commodity or the service, which affects the consumer and 
leads them to contract whereas they would not have contracted 
were it not for such information. Advertisin g fake or untrue prizes 
or discounts is considered misleading advertising.  
 Invoice  
 : Any instrument sufficient by itself to prove the transaction or 
contracting with the consumer on a commodity or service, 
provided it contains the data required by thi s Law or its Executive 
Regulation.  
 
Article (2)  
Objectives of the Law  
This Law aims to protect all consumer rights, especially:  
1. The quality of the commodity or service and the purchase as per the advertised price.  
2. Maintaining the consumer's health and safety upon their purchase of the commodity or 
receipt of the service without causing them harming when using the commodity or 
receiving the service.  
3. Encouragement of sound consumption patterns.  
  
Article (3) 
Application of the Law  
The provisions of this Law shall apply to all commodities and services inside the State, 
including the free zones, and the operations related thereto that are carried out by the 
provider, advertiser or commercial agent which includes those carried out via e -commerce if 
the provider is registered inside the State, without prejudice to the international conventions 
and agreements to which the State is a party.   
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  7 
   
Article (4) 
 Consumer Rights  
All prescribed obligations pursuant to this Law shall be regarded as consumer rights, 
including:  
1. Providing suitable and safe environment when purchasing a commodity or receiving a 
service.  
2. Obtaining true information on the commodities purchased, used or consumed or the 
service received.  
3. Educating and raising consumers' awar eness of their rights and obligations.  
4. Consumers exercising the right to choose the most suitable product and service available 
in the market according to their desire.  
5. Protecting consumers' privacy and data security and not using these for the purposes of 
promotion and marketing.  
6. Protecting consumers' religious values, customs and traditions when providing them 
with any commodity or when they receive any service.  
7. Fair and quick settlement for consumers' disputes.  
8. Obtaining fair compensation for the damages caused to them or their property as a 
result of purchasing or using the commodity or receiving the service.  
9. All other rights prescribed by the existing legislation in the State.  
It shall be permitted to add other rights upon a resolution from t he Cabinet.  
  
Article (5)  
The Supreme Committee for Consumer Protection  
 A Committee titled the "Supreme Committee for Consumer Protection" shall be formed by a 
resolution from the Cabinet upon a proposal from the Minister and shall be affiliated to the  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  8 
 Ministry. It shall be chaired by the Minister and include the membership o f a number of 
members. The said resolution shall determine the Committee's competences and working 
system.  
 
Article (6)  
Coordination with the Relevant Authorities  
1. The Department shall coordinate with the relevant authorities to ensure the protection 
of consumer rights.  
2. The Department shall submit periodic reports to the Committee on the coordination 
with the relevant authorities.  
3. The Executive Regulation of this Law shall determine the controls of implementing this 
Article.  
  
Chapter Two  
Obligations of the Provider, the Advertiser and the Commercial Agent  
Article (7)  
Labelling  
1. Upon offering the commodity for sale, the provider shall be required to place the 
labelling on its cover or package, or in a clear and legible place, a nd to clarify how to 
install and use it, in accordance with the existing legislation in the State with regard to 
the standard specifications.  
2. If the use of the commodity involves risk, the provider shall be required to warn against 
this clearly as prescrib ed by the Executive Regulation of this Law.  
  
  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  9 
 Article (8) 
 Price of the Commodity and Service  
1. Upon offering the commodity for sale, the provider shall be required to clearly write the 
price thereon.  
2. Advertising the prices of commodities and services offered by the provider must not be 
misleading.  
3. The provider shall be required to provide the consumer with a detailed invoice 
containing its trade name, address, commodity type, price and quantity or the service 
type, price and details and any ot her data prescribed by the Executive Regulation of this 
Law.  
4. The invoice must be in Arabic and the provider may add any other language at their 
discretion.  
  
Article (9)  
Addressing Contingencies  
In case of a crisis, contingencies or unusual situations in the internal and external markets, the 
Minister shall take all necessary procedures to protect the interest of consumers and prevent 
their harm. He may issue a resolution determining the prices of selling any commodity or 
commodities and all providers in t he State shall be bound by such a resolution.  
  
Article (10)  
Obligations of the Provider in Honouring the Warranty  
1. The provider shall be required to honour  all warranties, provide the required spare parts 
and maintenance, replace the commodity or return its cash value and be committed to 
the after -sales service of the sold commodity during the period specified.  
2. The provider shall be required to guarantee the  service it provided and that it is free from  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  10 
 defects and flaws during a period commensurate with the nature of such service, 
otherwise it shall return the amount paid by the consumer or a part thereof, or correctly 
re-provide the service.  
3. The Executive Re gulation of this Law shall determine the controls of implementing this 
Article.  
  
Article (11) 
Obligations of the Commodity and Service Provider upon Discovering a Defect Upon 
discovering a defect or risk in the commodity or the service likely to harm the consumer when 
using it, the provider shall be required to inform the Ministry or the competent authority 
immediately of the possible damages and how to prevent them, and to remove the 
commodity from the market immediately and declare this, as prescribed by  the Executive 
Regulation of the Law.  
  
Article (12)  
Flaw in the Commodity or Service  
In case of discovering a flaw in the commodity or service, the provider shall be required to 
repair, replace or recover the commodity and reimburse its price or re -provi de the service 
without charge, as prescribed by the Executive Regulation of this Law.  
  
Article (13)  
Obligations Upon Reoccurrence of the Flaw  
If the same flaw occurs in the commodity three (3) times during the first year from the 
consumer receiving it, and which fundamentally affects the quality of the commodity's 
functionality, the provider shall be required to either replace it with a new one of the same 
type and specifications without any cost to the consumer or recover it and reimburse its value,  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  11 
 in accordance with what is prescribed by the Executive Regulation of this Law.  
  
Article (14)  
Provisions of Warranty and Prices of After -Sales Service  
The Minister shall issue resolutions determining the periods and terms of the warranty an d 
prices of after -sales service as per the type and nature of each commodity or service.  
  
Article (15)  
Obligations of the Service Provider  
Contracts concluded by the provider shall be required to provide for repair, maintenance or 
after -sales service, or the return or replacement of the commodity or the reimbursement of its 
value within specified period from the date of the defect or flaw occurring, according to what 
is prescribed by the Executive Regulation of this Law.  
  
Article (16) 
 Commerc ial Agencies  
Subject to the provisions of legislation governing commercial agencies and enforced in the 
State, the commercial agent or distributor shall adhere to the following:  
1. Honoring all the warranties provided by the producer or the agent for the commodity or 
the service under the agency.  
2. Providing the consumer with a similar commodity to use free of charge if the execution 
of the warranties stipulated in Clause (1) of this Article exceeds (7) seven days, until such 
time as these warranties have be en fulfilled.  
3. The agent shall adhere to all the obligations of the provider, as stipulated in this Law, if 
the service or commodity is provided through it.  
   
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  12 
 Article (17) 
Describing the Commodity or Service with False Data  
The advertiser, provider and commercial agent are prohibited from describing the commodity 
or service in a manner containing false data or from advertising it in a misleading way.  
 
Article (18)  
Promotion Licensing  
The provider is prohibited from promoting the commodities or services or from making 
general discounts to the prices or from advertising them in any way, until they obtain a prior 
license from the competent authority.  
  
Article (19) 
 Monopoly  
Subject to the provisions of the existing legislation in th e State, the provider is prohibited from 
concealing the commodity, refraining from selling it or from not providing the service to the 
consumer for the purpose of controlling the price, monopolising the commodity or obliging 
the consumer to purchase certai n quantities of the commodity, or adding certain terms for 
using the service or selling a commodity or another service with it, or charging a price higher 
than the declared price; according to what is prescribed by the Executive Regulation of this 
Law.  
  
Article (20) 
 The Commodity's Conformity to the Approved Standard Specifications and 
Rules of Public Health and Safety  
The provider shall be required to ensure the conformity of the commodity or service to the  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  13 
 standard specifications, terms and controls related to health and safety and the relevant 
existing legislation in the State.  
 
Article (21)  
Prohibition of Including a Term Harmful to the Consumer  
The provider is prohibited from including any term upon contracting with the consumer that 
woul d cause the consumer harm. Every term in a contract, invoice or otherwise shall be 
deemed void if it would exempt the provider from any of the obligations provided in this Law.  
The Executive Regulation of this Law shall determine the controls of the terms that are not 
harmful to the consumer.  
  
Chapter Three  
 Consumer Rights' Protection  
Article (22) 
 The Ministry and Competent Authority’s Role in the Protection of 
Consumer Rights  
1. The Ministry shall supervise the application of the general policy for consumer protection 
in cooperation with the competent authorities, and in particular the following:  
a. Raising the awareness and educating the consumer in a manner that contributes to his 
protection from the risks of certain commodities and services including the e -commerce 
services.  
b. Publishing the resolutions and recommendations that contribute to i ncreasing consumer 
awareness.  
c. Controlling the movement of prices and limiting their increase.  
d. Workings towards realizing the principle of competition and combating misleading 
advertising and monopolization.   
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  14 
 e. Receiving complaints from consumers an d the Consumer Protection Association and taking 
the necessary procedures thereon; the Executive Regulation of this Law shall develop a 
system for receiving complaints and the procedures necessary in their regard, and establish 
coordination between the Min istry and the competent authority.  
2. A Cabinet resolution shall be issued concerning the schedule of administrative penalties 
and financial fines which the Ministry or Competent Authority – as the case may be – impose 
them on the provider.  
  
Article (23) 
 Use of Experts and Laboratories  
Subject to the aforementioned Federal Law No. (28) of 2001, as amended, the Ministry or 
competent authority – whenever required or in the event of a conflict between the provider 
and the consumer – may request to inspect t he commodity or the service at the laboratories, 
on condition that the provider incurs the cost of the inspection if it is found that the 
commodity is invalid.  
The Executive Regulation of this Law shall determine the controls of applying this Article.  
  
Article (24)  
The Consumer's Right to Claim Compensation  
1. The consumer shall have the right to claim compensation for the personal or material 
damages caused to them as a result of using the commodity or the service, in accordance 
with the existing legislation in the State. Any agreement made otherwise shall be 
deemed void.  
2. The damages resulting from misuse or from use in a manner which violates the method 
of use shall be excluded from the provision of Clause (1) of this Article.  
   
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  15 
 Article (25)  
E-Commerce  
1. The e -commerce providers registered within the State shall be required to provide the 
consumers and competent authorities in the State with their names, legal statuses, 
addresses, licensing authorities and sufficient information in Arabic on the  provided 
commodity or service, and its specifications, terms of contracting, payment and 
warranty; as prescribed by the Executive Regulation of this Law.  
2. The Ministry or the competent authority shall not be deemed responsible for the e -
commerce transactio ns made through providers who are not licensed within the State.  
  
Article (26) 
Use of Arabic in Data, Advertising and Contracts  
The data, advertising and contracts related to the consumer must be in Arabic, and it shall be 
permitted to use other languages alongside Arabic.  
  
Article (27) 
 Prohibition, Administrative Seizure or Withdrawal of Commodities  
Subject to the applicable legislation, the Minister or his representative and the competent 
authority – in the event of necessity or urgency after receiving information or reports from 
competent authorities about a harmful commodity or a commodity representing a risk to the 
consumer – may issue a resolution prohibiting the import of the commodity, its 
administrative detention or withdrawal from the m arkets (if it as entered them).  
  
 
 
  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  16 
 Chapter Four Penalties  
Article (28) 
The application of the penalties stipulated in this Law shall not prejudice any more severe 
penalty provided by any other law.  
  
Article (29) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of Articles (7), (10), (11), (12), (15), (16), (17) and (21) 
and the provisions of Clauses One, Two and Three of article (8) of this Law, shall be 
imprisoned for no longer than two years and fined no less than 10,000 (ten thousand) 
Dirhams and n o more than 2,000,000 (two million) Dirhams, or by one of these penalties.  
The penalty shall be doubled in the event of re -offence.  
  
Article (30) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of Articles (18), (19), (20) and (26) and the provisions 
of Clause Fou r of article (8) of this Law, shall be imprisoned for no longer than six months and 
fined no less than 3,000 (three thousand) Dirhams and no more than 200,000 (two hundred 
thousand) Dirhams, or by one of these penalties.  
The penalty shall be doubled in the  event of re -offence.  
  
Article (31) 
Upon the conviction of any of the crimes stipulated in this Law, the competent court may 
order:  
1. The confiscation or destruction of the commodity and used material and tools, at the 
cost of the convicted party.  
2. The closure of the shop or the place where the crime occurred for no longer than three 
months.   
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  17 
 3. The publication of the judgement of conviction at the cost of the convicted party in two 
daily local newspapers, one of them issued in Arabic.  
  
Article (32) 
Whoever illegally disposes, by any means, of the commodities and tools seized by the 
competent authority shall be imprisoned for no longer than two months and fined the 
equivalent to double the market value of the seized commodities and tools, or by one of  these 
penalties.  
  
Chapter Five  
Final Provisions  
Article (33)  
Adjustment of Status  
The provider, commercial agent and advertiser shall adjust their statuses in accordance with 
the provisions of this Law within a year from the date it is enforced. Such a period shall be 
extended to other similar periods by a resolution from the Cabinet upon a proposal from the 
Minister.  
  
Article (34) 
 Judicial Police  
Employees designated by a resolution of the Minister of Justice, in agreement with the 
Minister or the chairman of the Concerned Authority, shall have the capacity of judicial 
officers for proving all violations, within their jurisdiction, of the provisions of this Law, its 
Executive Regulation and the decisions issued in the implementation th ereof.  
   
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  18 
 Article (35)  
Appeal  
It shall be permitted for all interested parties to appeal in writing to the Minister or the Head 
of the competent Authority – as the case may be – the resolutions and procedures taken 
against them under the provisions of this Law within fifteen (15) worki ng days from the date 
of being notified of the resolution or procedure which is being appealed; provided it is 
accompanied by all supporting documents and instruments. A judgement shall be made on 
the appeal within thirty (30) days from the date it is subm itted, and the decision issued 
thereon shall be final. Failure to reply within the said period shall be deemed a rejection to the 
request.  
  
Article (36) 
Executive Regulation  
The Cabinet shall issue the Executive Regulation of this Law upon a proposal fro m the 
Minister within six months from the date it is published.  
  
Article (37) 
 Repeal  
1. The aforementioned Federal Law No. (24) of 2006 is hereby repealed, as well as any 
provision that violates or contradicts the provisions of this Law.  
2. The regulations and resolutions applying the aforementioned Federal Law No. (24) of 
2006 shall remain in force without contradiction to the provisions of this Law, until 
regulations and resolutions have been issued to replace them.  
  
  
Federal Law of 2020 on Consumer Protection  19 
 Article (38)  
Publication and Enforcement of Law  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force as of the day 
following the date of its publication.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signed  
Khalifa bin Zayed Al -Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
Issued by us a t the Palace of the Presidency in Abu Dhabi:  
On: 24 Rabi' al -Awwal 1442 AH  
Corresponding to: 10 November 2020 AD  
 
 