Cabinet Resolution of 202 1 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 9 Concerning the Rights 
of Senior Emiratis  1 
 Cabinet Resolution  No. (9) of 2021  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (9) of 2019  
Concerning the Rights of Senior Emiratis  
 
The Cabinet , 
− Having reviewed the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of Ministers, 
as amended ; 
− Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the  Rights of Senior Emiratis;  and  
− In consideration of the proposal  submitted by  the Minister of Community Development 
and approved by the Cabinet , 
Hereby resolves as follows : 
 
Article (1) 
Definitions  
The definitions described in the Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 shall apply to th is Resolution. 
Other than that, the following words and expressions shall have the meanings assigned 
thereto respectively, unless the context requires otherwise:  
Preferential Treatment  : To give preference and priority to Senior Emiratis in 
terms of providing the services and processing of the 
transactions . 
Senior Emiratis 
Protection Unit  : An organizational unit at the Ministry or the 
Competent Authority that is tasked with providing the 
protection mechanisms and measures for Senior 
Emiratis . 
Senior Emiratis 
Protection Specialist  : A licensed person engaged by the Ministry or the 
Competent Authority, as the case may be, to safeguard Cabinet Resolution of 202 1 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 9 Concerning the Rights 
of Senior Emiratis  2 
 and protect the rights of Senior Emiratis within the 
scope of his competences described in this Resolution . 
The Law  : Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 Concerning  the Rights of 
Senior Emiratis . 
 
Article (2) 
The Right to Protection  
In coordination with the Relevant Bodies, t he Ministry and the Competent Authority shall 
provide appropriate assistance to Senior Emiratis who have been exposed to any form of 
violence or abuse as follows:  
1. Assign a hotline at the  Senior Emiratis Protection Unit at the Ministry or the Competent 
Authority  for receiving reports on confirmed or suspected abuse or violence cases  
experienced by  any Senior Emirati.  
2. The report shall be analyzed and assessed  by the  Senior Emiratis Protecti on Specialist, and 
the extent of harm experienced by the Senior Emirati against whom the underlying 
violence or abuse is exercised  shall be deter mined according to the relevant form, and the 
underlying key reasons shall be identified . 
3. Appropriate solutions and measures shall be proposed as follows:  
a. Report to the police any of the cases that represent a crime penalized by the 
applicable legislation of the State . 
b. Refer the Senior Emirati  who is a victim of abuse or violence to a healthcare facility 
to receive the  necessary treatment, if required , so that such a healthcare facility  
shall draw up a medical report that describes his condition and indicates the type 
and impacts of  the abuse incident , if necessary.  
c. Refer the Senior Emirati who is a victim of abuse or violence  to a specialist 
rehabilitation center or to any other entity deemed appropriate by th e Ministry or 
the Co mpetent Authority , if necessary.  Cabinet Resolution of 202 1 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 9 Concerning the Rights 
of Senior Emiratis  3 
 4. Develop plans and create solutions and suggestions to eliminate the causes and impacts of 
violation of the rights of any Senior Emirati or any assault against them in coordination 
with the caregiver of the same.  
5. Disseminate the reporting procedures of abuse or violence cases against the Senior 
Emiratis to all governmental and nongovernmental social institutions  and indicate their 
responsibility for reporting any confirmed or suspected case of  abuse against them or any 
violation of their rights.  
 
Article (3) 
Preferential Treatment  
Subject to the provisions of article (10) of the Law, the Ministry and the Competent  Authority 
shall, in coordination with the relevant federal and local government entities , give preference 
and priority to the interests of Senior Emiratis  in respect of the follo wing matters:  
1. Assign seats for  Senior Emiratis  at the most frequented locations . 
2. Provide the fit-outs required for  Senior Emiratis at the public transportation means.  
3. Provide a “Senior Emirati” poster on the vehicles of Senior Emiratis.  
4. Any other services or preferential treatments to be added by the Ministry or the Competent 
Authority.  
 
Article (4) 
Obligations of the Senior Emiratis’ Families  
The families of Senior Emiratis shall be required to:  
1. Provide their food, drink and dress needs in proportion to their health condition.  
2. Provide appropriate dwelling for them and equip the same with furniture in  line with their 
needs . 
3. Safeguard t heir physical, psychological and health safety.  
4. Visit and communicate with them at their places of residence.  Cabinet Resolution of 202 1 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 9 Concerning the Rights 
of Senior Emiratis  4 
 5. Cooperate with  Senior Emiratis’ establishments and provide them with certified medical 
reports periodically or whenever needed.  
6. Provide adequate protection to, and safeguard  their property.     
7. Manage their property if they are unable to  take care of themselves according to the 
applicable legislation.  
8. Provide their official identification documents and papers  upon demand . 
9. Have their names registered in the database of the Ministry or of the Competent Authority.  
10. Refer any of them to the Ministry or the Competent Authority  if they are unable to take 
care of themselves and the family is not able to  provide financial and househo ld care  to 
them , in order to study their case and issue the necessary appropriate recommendation  in 
respect of them.  
 
Article (5) 
Controls of Access to  Services of Senior Emiratis’  Establishments  
Any Senior Emirati  may reside at the Senior Emiratis’  establishments according to the following 
controls : 
1. He shall be unable to take care of himself.  
2. There shall be a certified medical report  confirming  that he is unable to take care of himself.  
3. He shall have no  caregiver, service provider or a breadwinner . 
 
Article (6) 
Standards and Facilities  
1. The Ministry shall, in coordination with the relevant entities in the State, determine and 
apply the Emirates Code  for Qualified Environment to the locations allocated for Senior 
Emiratis . 
2. The caregiver shall avail of the following job facilities:  
 Cabinet Resolution of 202 1 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 9 Concerning the Rights 
of Senior Emiratis  5 
 a. The priority to work on a flextime basis.  
b. The priorit y to perform a remote job in case there is an emergency affecting a Senior 
Emirati  that requires the presence of an escort or caregiver.  
c. The priority to  avail of part -time jobs.  
d. The priority to avail of an annual leave or an escort leave for medical treatment  
within or outside the State . 
e. Any other job facilities or privileges  determined by the Ministry, the Competent 
Authority or the Government Entity hiring the caregiver employee.  
3. The granting of job facilities described in Clause (2) of this Article shall be in conformi ty 
with the applicable legislation in the State , and the Government Entity concerned shall give 
priority to the interest of  Senior Emiratis who are in dire need  of care . 
 
Article (7) 
Competences of Senior Emiratis Protection Unit  
The Senior Emiratis Protection Unit  at the Ministry and the Competent Auth ority shall exercise 
the following competences:  
1. Receive reports on any infringement of the rights of any Senior Emirati  that are established 
according to the applicable legislation in the State.  
2. Evaluate the reported case according to the form designed by the Ministry  in coordination 
with the Competent Authority.  
3. Take appropriate preventive measures to afford protection to Senior Emiratis on the matter 
of report , according to the provisions of the Law and this resolution.  
4. Develop appropriate intervention plans , provide consultation and support to both fa milies 
and  Senior Emiratis  who are vulnerable to abuse or violence and  get them familiarized with 
the legal basis for handling such cases.   
5. Coordinate with the entities specializing in  providing the psychological, social and health 
treatment to Senior Emiratis  who are vulnerable to abuse or violence . Cabinet Resolution of 202 1 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 9 Concerning the Rights 
of Senior Emiratis  6 
 6. Keep a watchful eye on Senior Emiratis who are vulnerable to abuse or violence , provide 
their needs, evaluate their situa tions and conduct periodic visi ts to them at their places of 
residence and work , if any, in order to ensure the availability of their appropriate care and 
support  standards , identify the progress of their conditions and provide recommendations 
thereon in coordination with the  relevant entities.  
7. Disseminate the Senior Emiratis’ rights culture in order to minimize the cases of abuse and 
infringement that may befall them by all means possible.  
8. Get involved in mediation and conciliation efforts between the Senior Emiratis  and their 
families, caregive rs or any third party, without prejudice to the Law and this Resolution.  
9. Take note of the investigation procedures into the crimes committed against any Senior 
Emirati, if necessary . 
10. Provide advice and guidance to the Senior Emiratis’ caregivers on the proper and sound 
care techniques, potential risks,  and the means available to avoid risks.  
11. Provide training and qualification for the Senior Emiratis’ caregivers.  
12. Manage, record,  and follow up on the alternative family.   
13. Document the complaints  relating to the Senior Emiratis and keep the data of each case in 
confidential records that can only be accessed by Senior Emiratis protection officers.  
 
Article (8) 
Requirements to be Satisfied by  Senior Emiratis Protection Unit s’ Staff  
1. The Senior Emiratis Protection Specialist  shall:  
a. Be a UAE national;  
b. Be of full legal competence;  
c. Be of good conduct and attitude and shall have  never been convicted on the 
grounds of a crime involving moral turpitude or breach of trust, even if 
rehabilitated.  Cabinet Resolution of 202 1 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 9 Concerning the Rights 
of Senior Emiratis  7 
 d. Be holder of a university degree in social, psychological  or family sciences  or a 
diploma in the said discipl ines , with at least three years of experience in the social 
or health field.  
e. Successfully pas the Ministry’s training program  for qualifying the Senior Emiratis 
Protection Specialist . 
2. The Minister or Head of the Competent Author ity may make  exceptions to Paragraph (1.D) 
of this Article.  
 
Article (9) 
Reconciliation Conditions and Controls  
1. Reconciliation into the criminal cases involving the crimes described in the Law shall take 
effect in accordance with the following conditions and controls:  
a. Reconciliation shall take place prior to the issuance of a final judgment on the 
criminal case . 
b. Reconciliation shall be accepted by both the victim and  the Ministry or the 
Competent Authority.  
c. Reconciliation shall take place in the presence of the Senior Emiratis Protection  
Specialist . 
d. A party t o the reconciliation shall be a  Senior Emirati . 
e. The perpetrator shall fill out the Undertaking Form de signated by the  Ministry or 
the Competent Authority . 
f. The injuries and harm descr ibed in the m edical report shall not exceed 21 -day 
treatment.   
g. No reconciliation has ever been made with the perpetrator on a past abuse 
incident.  
2. The Ministry or the Competent Authority  keep follow up on the matters of reconciliation 
with both the  perpetrator and the abused Senior Emirati . Cabinet Resolution of 202 1 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 9 Concerning the Rights 
of Senior Emiratis  8 
 Article (10) 
Regulatory Resolutions  
The Minister shall issue the resolutions required for implementing the provisions of this 
Resolution . 
 
Article (11) 
Repeals  
Each provision that goes against or is repugnant to the provisions of this Resolution shall be 
repealed.  
 
Article (12) 
Publication and Entry into Force  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force of the day 
following the date of its publication . 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by us:  
On: 01 Jumada II, 1442 AH  
Corresponding to: 14 January 2021  
  