 
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018 Concerning  the Executive Regulations of  
Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  
 
The Cabinet,  
Having reviewed:  
- The Constitution;  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of Ministers, as 
amended;  
- Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights Law ( Wadeema); and  
- Based on what was proposed by the Minister of Community Development  and  the Cabinet's 
approval , 
Hereby resolve s as follows : 
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In implementation of the provisions hereof , the following words and expressions shall bear the 
meanings assigned thereto herein respectively, unless the context otherwise requires:  
The State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
The Ministry  : The Ministry of Community Development.  
The Minister  : The Minister of Community Development.  
The Competent 
Authorities  : The federal authorities  concerned with child affairs.  
The Bodies Concerned  : The local  authorities concerned with child affairs.  
The Child  : Each and every human being born alive and below 18 years of age.  
The Custodian  : The person legally in charge of the Child or entrusted with the 
Child’s custody.  
The Foster Family  : The alternative family entrusted with the custody and care of the 
Child.  
The Child Protection 
Specialist  : The person duly licensed  and assigned by the Competent Authority 
or the bodies concerned , as the case may be, to preserve the Child   
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  2 
 rights  and protect the Child  within his competencies , as set forth 
under  the Law and herein . 
Child Abuse  : Each and every act or omission that would be detrimental to  the 
Child in a manner that prevents his upbringing and growth in a 
proper , safe and healthy manner.  
Child Neglect  : Failure of parents or custodians to take the measures necessary for 
protecting  the Child ’s life and physical, psychological, mental,  and 
moral wellness from danger and preserving  his various rights.  
Violence Against the 
Child  : The deliberate use of force against any child  by any individual or 
community, inflict ing actual harm to the Child ’s health or growth or 
survival . 
The Child’s Best Interest  : Put the Child ’s interest above all consideration s and give priority 
and preference  thereto  in all circumstances , regardless of the 
interests of other parties.  
The Child Protection 
Unit  : The organizational units , reporting to the Competent Authorities or 
the bodies concerned , having  sole competence to implement the 
Child  protection mechanisms and measures provided for under the 
Law and herein.  
The Social Care 
Institution  : The institution , reporting to the Comp etent Authorities or the bodies 
concerned , that provides  social care and accommodation  services 
for the Child  abused or deprived of family care.   
The Therapeutic Shelter  : The medical, social,  or psychological facility that provides treatment 
and rehabilitation services for child molestation  perpetrators.  
The Educational 
Institution  : The public or private institution wherein  a student is enrolled in 
education stages  within  the State under t he supervision of the 
Ministry or the educational body.  
The Approved Form  : The Child  status assessment form approved by the Ministry in 
coordination with the bodies concerned . 
The Law  : Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema).  
 
  
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  3 
 Article (2)  
Conditions of Child Labor  
1. The Ministry  shall , in coordination with the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratization , study 
the applications for child employment, provided that the same shall be submitted in writing by  the 
Child 's guardian or custodian  to the Ministry.  
2. In order for the Child  to be employed , the following are stipulated : 
a. The Child must n ot be less than  fifteen years of age . 
b. The Child must be m edically fit for the work he is required to be engaged in. 
c. Any other conditions determined by the Ministry or the Ministry of Human Resources and 
Emiratization . 
3. The Ministry shall, if the employment application is approved thereby, issue a permit and send the 
same  to the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratizati on. 
4. The Ministry shall prepare a child labor follow -up form; and the supervisor in charge of the Child  
work shall prepare a periodic report every three month s on the status of the Child  and submit the 
same  to the Ministry.  
5. The Ministry shall study  those  reports and make the necessary recommendations to the Ministry of 
Human Resources and Emiratization  as to the  children who have signs of  non -adaptation at work 
and any other remarks on the work environment to take the necessary actions . 
6. The children  may be trained or taught crafts or occupations by which they acquire knowledge, self -
reliance and self -fulfillment through their parents or custodians and in accordance with the controls  
issued  by resolution of  the Minister.  
 
Article (3)  
Places Where Children  are Banned  
1. The Child  shall be banned from entering or being accompanied to the following places:  
a. Adult nightclubs.  
b. Smoking areas.  
c. Laboratories of materials of fast and hazardous chemical reactions.  
d. Factories  and ovens of high temperatures.  
e. Place s of gas emission s and toxic liquids.  
f. Quarries, mines,  and places where  materials are extracted from the ground.   
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  4 
 g. Workshops of r apid and hazardous rotary machines.  
h. Places of war, armed conflict,  and natural and environmental disasters.  
i. Places where w eapons and explosives are manufactured.  
j. Places designated for cutting, pressing,  and forming  hazardous metals.  
k. Places of projectiles, flying sparks and melting.  
l. Unclean w aste recycling sites.  
m. Places where epidemics and deadly diseases spread.  
n. Places of  electromagnetic  interference and frequencies affecting the health of children.  
o. Places where  narcotic drugs  are manufactured; and  
p. Shops designated for  the sale of materials intended for adults .  
2. School visits and activities in accordance with the controls to be stipulated by the Ministry of 
Education and circulated  to schools and bodies concerned with education in the State  are excluded 
from the ban mentioned under Clause (1) of this Article .   
3. If the Ch ild is accompanied  to places other than those  specified under Clause (1) of this A rticle, the 
following shall be observed:  
a. Maintain the Child 's physical, psychological and moral wellness.  
b. Comply  with the controls  and stipulations  established by the supervisors of such  place ; and  
c. The age of the Child  and his degree of understanding of what he is seeing shall be appropriate 
to the place to which he is accompanied . 
 
Article (4)  
1. The managers  of movie theatres,  TV channels, sites designated for playing movies by whatever  
means and other similar places shall , in a conspicuous place in both Arabic and English and in clear 
writing , post the age of the children allowed to watch the films or materials played . 
2. The supervisors of cinemas shall request  a proof of the Child 's age before admitting  him  to see the 
show so as to  ascertain  that the show  is appropriate for his age.  
 
   
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  5 
 Procedures for Reporting Violations of Child  Rights in Educational Institutions  
Article (5)  
The Ministry of Education shall circulate the  said  procedures to all schools and educational institutions 
to clarify the role of staff in schools and educational institutions, public and private,  and their 
responsibility for reporting any abuse or violence against the Child  or in the event of suspected 
violations of child rights, and shall acquaint them with  the consequences of failing to report the same . 
 
Article (6)  
1. The  Child Protection Unit  reporting to  the Ministry of Education  shall be advised by the educational 
institutions of  the complaints pertinent to  infringements  or violations of any educational right , or 
any abuse suffered by the Child  upon their occurrence o r upon suspecting the occurrence of the 
same .  
2. The Child Protection Specialist shall examine the case, assess the harm  according to the approved 
form, identify the causes, propose the action as required  by the case study and file the same  to the 
Child Protection Unit . 
3. Having evaluated the case, the Child Protection Unit shall take the following procedures : 
a. Inform the pol ice in the cases that constitute a crime punishable by the statutes applicable in 
the State.  
b. Hospitalize the Child  for tr eatment, receive a medical report inclusive of a statement  showing 
the Child 's condition  and identify the effects ensuing  from the abuse incident  (sexual, physical, 
malnutrition  or illness) if necessary . 
c. Refer  the molested or abused Child  to rehabilitation programs at the competent entities if 
necessary .  
d. Set plans, solutions and proposals aiming at  remov ing the causes as well as the  effects  arising 
from such  violation of child rights or his abuse , in coordination with the Child 's guardian or 
custodian.  
 
 
 
  
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  6 
 Article (7)  
Competences  of the Child Protection Unit 
The Child Protection Unit shall undertake the following Competences:  
1. Receive reports on any violation of the Child  rights  that are established  in accordance with the 
statutes  applicable  in the State.  
2. Evaluate the reported case  as per  the approved form.  
3. Take appropriate preventive measures to protect  the Child  subject of the report  pursuant to  the 
provisions of the Law and this Resolution.  
4. Set appropriate intervention plans, provide counseling and support to families and  those  children 
exposed  to abuse, violence or exploitation, and acquaint  families  with the proper pedagogical 
principles  for dealing with the children.  
5. Coordinate  with the competent bodies to provide psychological, social and health treatment for the 
children victims of abuse or ill-treatment.  
6. Follow up on the families and children during the course of protection, provide them with the 
requirements necess ary and assess their cond itions  in order to identify the progress  of their cases  
and make the necessary recommendations in this regard.   
7. Coordinate with the competent authorities and the bodies  concerned with  search ing for and 
investi gati ng absent, runaway and missing children and their place s of residence.  
8. Set plans to regulate the Child 's visitation for his parents or custodian if the Child  is placed in social  
or health care  institutions or  with  a foster family.  
9. Disseminate the culture of child  rights to minimize , by all possible means , the potential violations to 
the Child.  
10. Contribute to getting the Child  reconciled with his parents or custodian or  any other party in 
conformity with the Law and this Resolution.   
11. Follow up on the course of investigation into crimes against the Child , if necessary.  
12. Provide counseling  and guidance to the Custodian of  the Child  on the methods of proper and 
correct  socialization , identifying the surrounding risks and the ways to avoid risks;  and  
13. Document  the children -related  complaints and keep  the data of eac h case in confidential records 
that can be accessed only by Child  protection specialist s. 
 
  
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  7 
 Article (8)  
Competences of the Ministry  
The Ministry shall, in coordination with the bodies concerned , undertake the following competences : 
1. Follow up on the measures taken with respect  to the children pursuant to  the provisions of the Law 
and this Resolution , and peri odically review the same  in such a manner  that ensures the Child's best 
interest.  
2. Select the  Foster Family in accordance with the controls  and conditions determined  herein . 
3. Create  a form  for following up on the children placed in social or health care institutions or with  a 
foster family.  
4. Approve  a training program for qualify ing the child protection specialist s before hiring  them.  
5. Conduct research, studies and statistics on the cases where child rights are violated.  
6. Develop the policies and programs pert aining to child protection and follow up on their 
implementation.  
7. Organiz e specialized training programs for parents, guardians and custodians of  the children and 
acquaint them  with  the difficulties they may face in dealing with them and the ways to address  such  
difficulties ; and  
8. Set the code of ethics of the Child  protection specialist s. 
 
Article (9)  
Conditions of Child Protection Specialist  
1. The Child Protection Specialist shall:  
a. Be a  citizen of the State.  
b. Have full legal capacity.  
c. Be of good conduct and has never  been convicted of an offense involving moral turpitude or 
breach of trust, even if rehabilitated.   
d. Be holder of a university degree in social  or psychological  sciences or in the field of family and  
childhood, or have a diploma in the said com petencies with at least 3 years of experience  in the 
field of child protection ; and  
e. Successfully pass the training program approved by the Ministry for qualifying  the Child  
protection specialist s.  
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  8 
 2. Without prejudice to P aragraphs (A, B and C) of  Clause (1) of this A rticle, the Child Protection 
Specialist working for the Ministry of the Interior shall  be holder of a university degree  in law or 
police sciences or a diploma with a t least 3 years of experience in the field of child protection . 
 
Article (10)  
Preventive Measures  
The Child Protection Specialist shall , subject to prior approval of the superior body concerned, take th e 
following preventive measures:  
1. Integrate the children  into the programs and activities that support  their personalities  towards the 
problems  they face or the challenges they encounter;  
2. Take appropriate actions to provide the children  and families with the skills necessary for tackling 
problems , through courses and workshops ; 
3. Coordinate with the relevant  bodies  to take the necessary measures  regarding the safety of the 
children and protection of their rights.  
4. Instruct and enlighten the child ren about  the risks  they  may face when visiting  some places or 
practic ing some activities.  
 
Article (11)  
Oath  Taking  
The Child Protection Specialist shall, before assuming  his job, take the oath before the head of the body 
to which he reports  or the his delegate as follows:  
“I swear by Almighty God to perform my work with accuracy, honesty and sincerity,  to abide by  the 
laws  of the United Arab Emirates , and to  preserve and keep confidential the secrets of work and the 
information and secrets that come to my knowledge ”.  
 
Article (12)  
Protection Measures  
The C hild Protection Specialist shall, if there is a threat to the Child 's safety or physical, psychological, 
moral or mental health , take the necessary protection measures as follows :  
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  9 
 1. Take the Child  out of the danger ous place and put him  in a safe place  that ensures protection 
according to his assessment of the level of danger to the Child .    
2. Cond uct a comprehensive social research clarifying the conditions  and circumstances surrounding 
the Child , and submit  a report to the superior administrative body  accompanied by  the appropriate 
recommendations for necessary action  to be taken . 
3. Rehabilitate  the Child  psychologically and physically by specialists .  
4. Enroll the  Custodian  in training programs to ensure good treatment and normal growth of the Child .  
5. Pay field visits to the Child , if necessary, to check  his condition and solve  any problems that he may 
be facing . 
6. Prevent the Child  from engag ing in acts that would cause him harm  and  deny his access to places 
that threaten his physical, psychological and moral wellness . 
7. Submit  recommendation s to the bodies concerned  to support the Child's family if the C hild 
Protection Specialist becomes convinced that the Custodian's  neglect  is attributable to the poor 
social status of the family . 
8. File a report to his employer to address the Public Prosecution  Office , if necessary, and send  a 
warning to the Custodian  in case the latter is persistently failing to comply with  implementat ion of 
the agreed recommendations . 
9. File a report  to the Child P rotection Unit in which he/she works , clarifying  therein  the conditions  and 
circumstances surrounding the Child when it is necessary to address the competent prosecution  
office  for taking  appropriate action for protect ing the Child , as provided for under the L aw, no later 
than 24 hours as from  the date on which  the report is received.  
10. Identify the appropriate Foster F amily for the Child , and ascertain that the same enjoy all rights 
within such family.  
 
Article (13)  
Conditions of the Foster F amily  
The Foster Family shall:  
1. Consist of  a married  couple of not less than 25 years old  each ; 
2. Be reputable and  of good conduct ; 
3. Be of the same  religion  of the Child;   
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  10 
 4. Have never been convicted of an offense involving moral turpitude or breach of trust, even if 
rehabilitated;  
5. Be proven to have been  free of communicable and psychological diseases and mental disorders 
affecting the health and safety  of the Child , through a report to be issued by an official medical body ; 
6. Be financial ly capable of sustaining  its members  along with  the Child ; 
7. Undertake to treat the Child well, to raise him righteously and to look after his health, education, 
protection and development in accordance with the relevant undertaking form ; and  
8. Abide by a ny other conditions determined by the Minister , based on  the recommendation of the 
Child  Protection Unit and in conformity with  the provisions of  the Law and this Resolution . 
 
Article (14)  
Obligations of the Foster Family or the Entity  with which the Child is Placed  
The Foster Family or the entity  with which the Child is placed shall:  
1. Take care of the Child and provide him with all basic needs necessary i.e. food, clothing, drink and 
shelter;  
2. Treat the Child well and provide him with pedagogical, health, psychological, physical and moral 
care;  
3. Not give up caring for the Child or hand him over to another foster family or his parents or one of 
them even for a temporary period until and unless an approval to that effect is obtained from the 
entity  in charge of the Child;  
4. Advise the Ministry of any change to the status of the family , e.g. d ivorce, death of one of the spouses 
or marriage of a family member, or any change to the place of residence of the family;  
5. Inform the Ministry if the Child is enrolled in a school, absent from home, escapes, dies, or becomes 
a school dropout;  
6. If desiring to travel abroad with or without the Child, consult the entity  in charge of the Child; and  
7. No consideration shall be paid to the Foster Family in return for the Child care duties.  
 
Article (15)  
Controls of Placing the Child with a Foster Family or Another Entity  
1. In the case of failure to fulfill the conditions stipulated for keeping the Child with his family as 
mentioned in article (47) of the Law, the Child shall be placed with an appropriate fo ster family or  
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  11 
 social, pedagogical  or health agency or institution, whether it is public or private, in accordance with 
the following controls:  
a. A permit from the Public Prosecution Office shall be obtained.  
b. The Foster Family shall meet the stipulations e stablished for the Child care under the Law and 
this Resolution.   
c. The Foster Family or the entity with which the Child is placed shall abide by the obligations set 
forth under the Law and this Resolution.  
d. The Foster Family or the entity with which the Chi ld is placed shall be approved by the Ministry.  
2. The natural family of the Child shall be informed of the entity with which the Child is placed, as 
specified under Clause (1) of this Article, unless the Child's Best Interest requires otherwise.  
 
Article (16)  
Procedures for Releasing the Person Convicted of Child Molestation   
1. Before releasing a person convicted of child molestation , the penitentiary shall follow the following 
procedures:  
a. Conducting psychological examinations and tests on such convict; and  
b. Addressing the Public Prosecution Office as to the application for referral to the Therapeutic 
Shelter, accompanied by the results of psychological examinations and tests that prove the 
ineligibility of such convict for being released and that  the same still constitutes a social danger.  
2. The Public Prosecution Office shall, upon receipt of the referral application, take the following 
measures:  
a. Submitting the said application to the competent court to issue the order of placing with the 
Therapeut ic Shelter; and  
b. Undertaking the procedures for placing such convict with the Therapeutic Shelter, based on the 
order issued by the competent court.  
3. The Therapeutic Shelter shall rehabilitate such convict placed therewith through an integrated 
program at th e hands of specialists so as to revert to the normal life, and may not release the same 
except as follows:  
a. The Therapeutic Shelter shall file a report to the Public Prosecution Office to examine the 
release of such convict, placed therewith, at the end of  the respective program and after the 
examinations and tests demonstrate that the same is no longer a social danger to children.   
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  12 
 b. The Public Prosecution Office shall bring the matter before the competent court so as to request 
the release of such convict.  
 
Article (17)  
Controls Governing the Application of Engineering Standards and Specifications  
1. The authorities concerned with construction in each Emirate shall apply the special engineering 
standards and specifications, construction laws and safety and secur ity requirements that protect 
the Child from any kind of harm, in accordance with the following controls:  
a. Obligating the owners of buildings to apply the aforementioned standards, specifications and 
requirements;  
b. Ensuring the implementation of such standar ds, specifications and requirements; and  
c. Penalizing whoever contravenes the same pursuant to the statutes  applicable at such 
authorities . 
2. The Competent Authorities and the bodies concerned  shall, in coordination with the Ministry, 
establish the controls and procedures necessary for protection of the Child in public and recreational 
places and in public transport ation , taking into account the following:  
a. Availability of all child safety preca utions;  
b. Appropriateness of entertainment games for the age of the Child, posting the necessary alerts if 
they are not suitable for the children with certain diseases along with the conditions of use; and  
c. Setting conditions for using the public transport ation by the children where this is required.  
 
Article (18)  
Procedures for Preparing a Report on the Custody Applicant  
1. One or more committees shall be formed in each Emirate by a resolution of the Minister of Justice 
or the head of the competent judicial body. The number of its members shall not be less than three 
persons with experience and competence, inter alios, a repr esentative from the Child Protection 
Unit. The resolution forming the said committee (s) shall determine its nature of work and decision -
taking mechanism.  
2. Without prejudice to the provisions of the Personal Status Law, the competent court shall, prior to 
delivery of a judgment on the Child custody, request the committee referred to hereinabove under 
Clause (1) of this Article to submit a detailed report on the social, psychological and health status as  
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  13 
 well as the criminal status of the person applying for c ustody or the person to whom custody will be 
ordered by the court, or submit a statement indicating that he   did not commit  any crime outside the 
State.  
3. The report referred to under Clause (1) of this Article shall be prepared in accordance with the 
follow ing procedures:  
a. The specialist reporting to the Child Protection Unit shall pay a field visit to the applicant for 
custody or the person to whom custody will be ordered by the court in order to identify the 
family, social and economic conditions thereof an d his ability to provide the subsistence, 
educational and health needs necessary for the Child.  
b. The necessary tests shall be conducted to ascertain that the custody applicant or the person to 
whom custody will be ordered by the court is eligible for custod y of the Child in accordance 
with the approved form.  
c. It is required to ascertain that the custody applicant or the person to whom custody will be 
ordered by the court is free of any disease that poses a danger to the Child in custody, by a 
medical certificate from an approved medical entity . 
d. A recent good conduct certificate of the custody applicant or the person to whom custody will 
be ordered by the court, from inside or outside the State, as the case may be, shall be attached.  
e. The cust ody applicant or the person to whom custody will be ordered by the court shall sign the 
approved acknowledgment to have never committed a crime outside the State.  
 
Final Provisions  
Article (19)  
The Ministry shall prepare a database of those convicted of cr imes against children ; and the Competent 
Authorities and the bodies concerned  in the State shall provide the Ministry with data pertinent to such 
convicts as per the forms prepared by the Ministry for this purpose.  
 
Article (20)  
The provisions hereof shall not prejudice any other procedures, approved by the Bodies concerned , 
which guarantee better protection of the Child, subject to the provisions of the Law and this Resolution.  
 
  
Cabinet Resolution No. (52) of 2018, Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 on Child Rights 
Law (Wadeema)  14 
 Article (21)  
The Minister shall issue the resolutions necessary for the implementation of the provisions hereof.  
 
Article (22)  
Any provision contradicting or contrary to the provisions hereof is hereby repealed.  
 
Article (23)  
This Resolution shall be published in the  Official Gazette and shall come into force as of the date of 
enactment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by us:  
On 6 Rabi' I, 1440 AH,  
Corresponding to 14 November 2018 AD  