 
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 1 
         
Federal Law No. (9) of 2023  
 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 
We, Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan ,        President of the United Arab Emirates;  
− Upon reviewing the Constitution ; 
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972  concerning the Competences of Ministries and Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (2) of 2015 on Combating Hatred and Discrimination, as 
amended;  
− Federal Law No. (14) of 2016 concerning Administrative Violations and Penalties in 
the Federal Government;  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (31) of 2021 Promulgating the Crimes and Penalties Law, 
as amended;  
− Upon the proposal of the Minister of Community Development as approved by the 
Cabinet and the Federal National Council, and as ratified by the  Federal Supreme 
Council;  
Have issued the following Law:  
  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In application of the provisions of this Law, the following words and expressions shall have 
the meanings ascribed thereto unless the context otherwise requires:   
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 2 
        
State  : United Arab Emirates.  
Ministry  : Ministry of Community Development.  
Minister  : Minist er of Community Development  
Local  
Authority  : The Local Authority concerned with licensing, 
supervising and controlling Houses of Worship, within 
whose jurisdiction the headquarters of the House of 
Worship falls.  
Competent 
Authority  : The Ministry or Local Authority, as the case may be.  
Relevant  
Authorities  : Federal or Local Authorities concerned with the 
activities carried out by the House of Worship.  
Committee  : The Committee responsible for determining the 
practices, rituals, and worship of Non -Muslim 
religions, sects, and beliefs within the Sta te. 
Religions, 
Sects and  
Beliefs  : A group of Non -Muslim religions, sects, and beliefs 
whose practices, worship, and rituals within the State 
are determined by the Committee.  
Houses of 
Worship  : Places licensed to perform practices, worship, and 
conduct religious rituals for religions, sec ts, and beliefs, 
including the facilities attached thereto.  
Room of 
Worship  
 : Designated and authorised rooms at airports for 
performing prayers for religions, sects and beliefs in 
coordination with the Competent Authority.   
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 3 
       The Board of 
Directors  
 : The B oard responsible for managing the affairs of the 
House of Worship.  
Members  
 : The Founding Members and everyone who joins the 
membership of the House of Worship in accordance 
with its by -laws.  
Supervisor  
 : The natural person appointed by the Board to carry 
out the executive work related to the House of 
Worship in accordance with by -laws.  
Register  
 : A database for registering Houses of Worship and 
rooms.  
 
Article (2) 
 Law Objectives  
This Law aims to achieve the following:  
1. Regulate Places and Rooms of Worship in the State.  
2. Consolidate the values of tolerance and coexistence.  
 
Article (3)  
Scope of Application  
Provisions of this Law shall apply to Places and Rooms of Worship in the State, including the 
Free Zones.  
   
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 4 
       Article (4) 
 Committee  
1. The Committee shall be formed that shall be responsible for determining the practices, 
Worship, religious rituals, sects, and beliefs within of Non -Muslim in the State.  
2. The formation of the Committee, its work system, and its other powers shall be issued by 
a resolution of the Cabinet based on th e Minister proposal.  
  
Article (5) 
 Register  
A register shall be created by the Competent Authority in which the Places and Rooms of 
Worship that it licences or allocates shall be recorded. The Executive Regulations of this law 
shall specify the data and information that shall be recorded in this reg ister.  
  
Article (6) 
 Conditions for Licensing Houses of Worship  
Subject to the requirements determined by the Local Authority, the following conditions shall 
be required for a licence to establish House of Worship:  
1. The number of Founding Members of the Ho use of Worship shall not be less than 
twenty (20) people, provided that each one of them shall fulfil the following conditions:  
a. The Founding Member shall not be less than forty (40) years of age at the time of 
submitting the Licence Application. The Compet ent Authority may make an 
exception to this condition.  
b. The Founding Member has full capacity;   
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 5 
       c. The Founding Member shall be of good conduct and of good reputation, and he has 
not been previously sentenced to imprison penalty in a felony or misdemeanour of 
breaching honour or trust, unless he has been rehabilitated; and  
d. The Founding Member shall be a  follower of the religion, sect, or belief for which the 
House of Worship is to be licensed, and he shall submit an acknowledgement 
thereof.  
e. The Founding Member have resided in the State for a term of no less than (5) five 
years immediately preceding the s ubmission of the application.  
f. The Founding Member shall submit a recommendation certificate from the parent 
House of Worship determined by the Committee.  
g. The Founding Member shall not be a diplomat.  
h. The Founding Member shall provide proof of the ability to  bear the costs of 
establishing and operating the House of Worship.  
2. The House of Worship to be licensed shall belong to one of the religions, sects, or beliefs 
whose practices, rituals, and worship in the State the Committee has determined.  
3. All Founding Member shall sign the by -laws of the House of Worship, recording the 
necessary data in it according to the form stipulated in Clause (4) of article (8) of this 
law.  
4. The licensing of a House of Worship shall not prejudice public order.  
5. Any othe r conditions determined by the Competent Authority.  
  
Article (7)  
Allocation of Rooms of Worship  
Rooms of Worship may be allocated in coordination with the Competent Authority, and the  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 6 
       Executive Regulations of this law specify the conditions, controls and pr ocedures for 
allocation.  
  
Article (8)  
Articles of Association  
1. Every House of Worship shall have by -laws, approved at a meeting of the Founding 
Members.  
2. Subject to the data requested by the Local Authority, the by -laws of the House of 
Worship shall include the following:  
a. The name of the House of Worship and its headquarters, provided that it does not 
create confusion with the name of another House of Worsh ip licensed in the same 
Emirate, and that its name is not linked to the name of national symbols or figures, or 
the name of the country or any of the Emirates or any of the regions or landmarks in 
the State.  
b. The purpose for which the House of Worship is es tablished.  
c. An overview of the religion, sect, or belief whose practices, worships, and religious 
rituals shall be performed in the House of Worship, and the schedule and times for 
holding its religious rituals.  
d. Membership conditions, types, procedures for acceptance and cancellation, and 
members rights and duties.  
e. Rules of Articles of Association Amendment  
f. All information related to the financial resources of the House of Worship, their 
sources, methods of collecting or collecting them, the rules of its man agement and 
disposal, the method of monitoring its spending, the records by which it is kept, and  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 7 
       the beginning and end of its financial year.  
g. The bank accounts of the House of Worship, and the rules and controls for opening, 
managing, operating and closing those accounts.  
h. Conditions and controls for the voluntary dissolution and closure of a House of 
Worship.  
i. The fate of the House of Worship fun ds upon dissolution and liquidation.  
3. A House of Worship may not make any amendments to its Articles of Association except 
after obtaining prior approval from the Competent Authority.  
4. The Competent Authority shall develop a model of the by -laws for Houses o f Worship 
for guidance.  
  
Article (9)  
Licence Application  
1. The Founding Members shall select from among themselves a temporary Committee 
whose members shall not be less than three (3) persons to act on their behalf in 
submitting the Licence Application and following up on the procedures stipulated in this 
law and its Executive Regulations.  
2. The temporary Committee shall submit the Licence Application to the Competent 
Authority, attaching to it the by -laws signed by the Founding Members in accordance 
with the procedures and documents specified by the Executive Regula tions of this law.  
3. The Competent Authority shall study the Licence Application, and may request the 
temporary Committee, within sixty (60) days from the date of submitting the 
application, to enter any data or amendments to the Articles of Association and complete 
any documents.   
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 8 
       4. The Competent Authority shall issue its decision to initially approve or reject the 
application within sixty (60) days of the application completing all necessary data and 
documents.  
  
Article (10)  
Fulfilling the Licensing Requirement s and Conditions  
After obtaining initial approval from the Competent Authority, the temporary Committee 
shall fulfil the licensing requirements and conditions specified by the Executive Regulations 
of this law within a term not exceeding (6) six months fro m the date of the initial approval. 
Otherwise, this approval shall be considered cancelled, and the Competent Authority may 
extend this term for similar terms. Not more than (3) three years if the House of Worship is 
still under construction or under the p rocess of obtaining some official approvals.  
  
Article (11) 
 Licence decision, term and renewal  
1. The Competent Authority issues the decision to licence the House of Worship with in 
sixty (60) days from the date on which all requirements and conditions are met.  
2. The Licence term for a House of Worship is a maximum of two years.  
3. The Licence shall be renewed in accordance with the conditions and procedures 
specified by the Executive R egulations of this law, and the Head of the Competent 
Authority may make an exception to the Licence term upon renewal.  
  
  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 9 
       Article (12)  
Legal Personality  
The House of Worship shall acquire legal personality from the date of issuance of the final 
licence from the Competent Authority.  
  
Article (13)  
The Board of Directors  
1. The affairs of the House of Worship are managed by a Board of Directors concerned with 
providing the necessary means to carry out its activities and achieve its purposes. The 
Chairman of the Boa rd of Directors shall represent the House of Worship in its dealings 
with others and before the judiciary.  
2. Both the Chairman and members of the Board of Directors shall meet the conditions for 
Founders stipulated in Clause (1) of article (6) of this law.  
3. The by -laws of the House of Worship shall determine the powers of the Board of 
Directors, the number of its members, the term of membership, how they are selected, 
other conditions that shall be met by them, its work system, and other provisions.  
4. The Board  of Directors shall appoint a supervisor for the House of Worship, and the by -
laws of the House of Worship shall determine his duties and responsibilities and the 
method and procedures for his appointment.  
  
Article (14) 
 Annual Meeting  
Every House of Worship  shall hold an annual meeting, and it may hold urgent meetings  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 10 
       whenever the need arises. The Articles of Association of the House of Worship shall specify 
the rules for organising these meetings, their terms of reference, the procedures for calling 
them, t he conditions for the validity of their holding, and the mechanism for making their 
decisions. The Competent Authority shall appoint a representative to attend these meetings 
and supervise them.  
  
Article (15)  
Financial Resources  
The financial resources of a  House of Worship shall consist of membership subscriptions, if 
any, and gifts, bequests, and grants that the House of Worship receives within its spatial 
framework after the approval of the Competent Authority in accordance with the provisions 
of this law . 
  
Article (16)  
House of Worship Funds  
1. The House of Worship Funds are its property, and its Members or Founders have no 
right to it or claim any part thereof.  
2. A House of Worship may not collect or receive donations or accept gifts, subsidies, 
bequests or grants from any person or entity outside the State.  
3. A House of Worship may not transfer, provide, or transfer any aid, support, assistance, or 
funds outside the  country except after obtaining prior approval from the Competent 
Authority.  
   
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 11 
       Article (17)  
Bank Accounts  
Every House of Worship shall have a bank account in one of the banks operating in the State, 
in accordance with the controls and conditions specified by  the Executive Regulations of this 
law.  
  
Article (18)  
Records and Books  
A House of Worship shall keep at its headquarters records, books, programmes, and electronic 
systems related to all its activities for a term of not less than (10) ten years, and they m ay not 
be destroyed except after the approval of the Competent Authority.  
  
Article (19)  
House of Worship Obligations  
The House of Worship shall comply, as follows:  
1. Spend its funds to achieve the purposes for which it is established.  
2. Use the House of Worship for the purposes specified in its Articles of Association.  
3. Make no amendment to its by -laws, change the presidency or membership of the Board 
of Directors or its supervisor, or change its name or headquarters except after obtaining 
the approval of the Competent Authority.  
4. Provide the Competent Authority with all the data and information it requests related to 
the affairs of the House of Worship.  
5. Enable the employee s of the Competent Authority to enter the headquarters of the  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 12 
       House of Worship, and to view and audit its documents, records, and books.  
6. Provide the Competent Authority with its annual budget and financial statements within 
a term not exceeding three (3) m onths from the end of the fiscal year.  
7. The legislation in force in the State.  
8. Any other obligations as determined by the Competent Authority;  
  
Article (20) 
 Prohibitions on the Houses and Rooms of Worship  
May not use or exploit Houses or Rooms of Worship for the following:  
1. Use it for purposes other than its intended use.  
2. Insult the teachings on which any religion, sect, or other belief is based i n accordance 
with the provisions of this law, or religions stipulated in other legislation in force in the 
State, or calling for that.  
3. Interfere in the politics, internal or external affairs of the State or its law of government, 
or harming public order.  
4. Provoke sectarian, racial, religious or ethnic strife, or calling for extremism or violence.  
5. Practice any activities aimed at preaching the gospel or calling for one religion, sect, or 
belief.  
6. Practice any worship, religious rites or rituals outside Houses  of Worship.  
7. Organise conferences, seminars, gatherings or events without obtaining the approval of 
the Competent Authority.  
8. Dispose of its funds for purposes other than those for which they were established.  
9. Hold external meetings and conferences or joini ng Places of worship, organisations, 
bodies, associations or entities based outside the country.   
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 13 
       10. Practice any rites or rituals that lead to harm to oneself or others or threaten the health, 
safety or security of any person, visitor or worker of the House o f Worship.  
11. Collect donations, allowing them to be collected, or announcing them through audio, 
print, visual, social media, or any other means.  
12. To have an official or informal relationship with the diplomatic or official institutions of 
any State in any capacity.  
13. Interfere in the internal or foreign politics of other States or using a House of Worship as 
a platform for that.  
14. Any other actions that the Competent Authority prohibits Houses or Rooms of Worship 
from performing.  
  
Article (21)  
Prohibition of Construction, Al location or Practice in violation of the 
provisions of the law  
1. May not establish or allocate Houses or Rooms of Worship in violation of the provisions 
of this law, its Executive Regulations, and the decisions issued in implementation 
thereof.  
2. May not perform any practices or worship, hold any religious rites or rituals, or engage in 
any activities at the headquarters of the proposed House of Worship, before all 
procedures are completed and a decision is issued to licence the House of Worship.  
 
 
 
  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 14 
       Article (22) 
 Supervision  
The Competent Authority has the right to supervise Houses of Worship within the scope of its 
purposes specified in its Articles of Association, review the financial and administrative 
aspects and request any information or data.  
  
Article (23)  
Data, Information and Reports  
1. Local Authorities shall provide the Ministry with data, information and reports regarding 
the places and Rooms of Worship that it licences or allocates, in accordance with the 
controls and mechanisms that are agreed  upon.  
2. The employees of the Competent Authorities are committed to maintaining the 
confidentiality of these data, information and reports and not disclosing them or 
allowing others to access them.  
  
Article (24)  
Administrative Penalties  
1. Without prejudice to criminal liability or any other administrative penalties stipulated in 
any other law, the Competent Authority may impose any of the following administrative 
penalties on Houses of Worship in the event that they violate any of the provi sions of 
this law, its Executive Regulations, or the decisions issued in implementation thereof: - 
a. Warning.  
b. Temporarily suspend the activity of the House of Worship for a term not exceeding  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 15 
       three (3) months, extendable for similar terms.  
c. Dismiss the Board of Directors and coordinating with the relevant authorities to 
appoint a temporary Board of Directors to exercise all its powers for a term of (6) six 
months, extendable for another similar term.  
d. The administrative fine shall not be less than (5,000) five thousand AED and not 
more than (1,000,000) one million AED.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this law specify the procedures for imposing penalties and 
filing complaints against them.  
  
Article (25)  
Mandatory Dissolution and Closure  
1. Without prejudice to criminal liability, the head of the Competent Authority shall issue a 
decision to dissolve and close the House of Worship in coordination with the Relevant 
Authorities in the event of committing any of the prohibitions stipulated in article (20) of 
this law.  
2. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall file appeal against the decision referred to 
in Clause (1) of this Article, within a term not exceeding (15) fifteen days from the date 
of notification . The appeal shall be decided by a reasoned decision within (30) thirty 
working days from the date of its submission, and the complainant shall be informed of 
the appeal result.  
  
Article (26)  
Voluntary Dissolution and Closure  
Unless the Articles of Association stipulates otherwise, a House of Worship may be dissolved  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 16 
       and closed voluntarily in accordance with the following controls:  
1. Based on the proposal of the Board of Directors or at least a quarter of the members of 
the Hous e of Worship.  
2. The Council shall invite all members of the House of Worship to an emergency meeting 
to decide on the proposal for dissolution and closure. The decision shall be issued by a 
three -quarters majority of the members attending the meeting.  
3. The Board of Directo rs shall inform the Competent Authority of the date and place of the 
meeting, at least fifteen (15) days before the date specified for the meeting.  
4. The decision to dissolve and close shall be issued by the Head of the Competent 
Authority.  
  
Article (27) 
 Diss olution Rules  
1. The decision issued by the Head of the Competent Authority for dissolution and closure 
shall determine the dissolution procedures, how to dispose of the funds, books and 
records of the House of Worship, and the fate of those funds unless spe cified by the 
Articles of Association or is not possible to implement.  
2. The House of Worship regarding which the decision to dissolve and close is issued shall 
remain a legal entity to the extent necessary to complete its liquidation procedures.  
3. The Head of the Competent Authority shall issue a decision to remove the House of 
Worship from the register after completing the dissolution procedures.  
  
 
  
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 17 
       Article (28) 
 Penalties  
1. Anyone who violates the provisions of this law and the regulations and decision s 
implementing it shall be punished with a fine of not less than (100,000) one hundred 
thousand AED and not more than (3,000,000) three million AED.  
2. The imposition of the penalties stipulated in this Law shall be without prejudice to any 
more severe penalt y stipulated in any other law.  
  
Article (29)  
Judicial Enforcement  
The Minister of Justice, or the Head of the Local Judicial Authority, each within the limits of 
his jurisdiction, in agreement with the Head of the Competent Authority, may grant Judicial 
Officer capacity to some employees of the Competent Authority to prove violations of the 
provisions of this law, its Executive Regulations, and the decisions issued pursuant to it within 
the scope of their jurisdiction.  
  
Article (30)  
Reconciliation  
Houses of Worship existing on the effective date of this law shall reconcile in accordance with 
its provisions, within (6) six months from the date of implementation of its Executive 
Regulations, and the Competent Authority may extend this term for similar  terms not 
exceeding two years.  
   
Federal Law of 2023 concerning the Regulation of Houses of Worship for Non -Muslims  
 18 
       Article (31) 
 Executive Regulations  
The Cabinet, based on the Minister proposal in coordination with the Local Authorities, shall 
issue the Executive Regulations for this law within (6) six months from the date of its 
impleme ntation.  
  
Article (32)  
Repeals  
Any provision that violates or contradicts the provisions of this Law shall be repealed.  
  
Article (33) 
 Law Publication and Enforcement  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force after (6) six 
months from the date of its publication.  
 
 
Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
 
Issued by Us at the Palace of the Presidency in Abu Dhabi:  
Dated: May 31, 2023  
Corresponding to: 11 Dhul -Qidah 1444 H  