Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  69 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  
Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  
We, Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,                President of the United Arab Emirates , 
− Upon reviewing the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning t he Jurisdictions of Ministries and Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (2) of 2008 on Public Welfare Associations and National Societies, as 
amended;  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (20) of 2018 concerning Combating Money Laundering and the 
Financin g of Terrorism and Illegal Associations, as amended;  
− Based on the Proposal of the Minister of Community Development, and the Cabinet 
Approval,  
Have promulgated the following Decree by Law:  
 
Chapter One  
General Provisions  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In applica tion of the provisions of this Decree by Law, the following words and phrases shall have 
the meanings assigned to each of them, unless the context otherwise requires:  
United Arab Emirates.  : State  
Ministry of Community Development.  : Ministry  
Minister of  Community Development.  : Minister  
Local Government Authority concerned with licensing, supervising and 
controlling Public Welfare Associations in accordance with its applicable : Local 
Authority  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  70 
 legislation, within whose jurisdiction, the Office of these Associations is 
located, or any of its branches in relation to the activity of this branch.  
Local Authority or Ministry in the Emirate where there is no Local 
Competent Authority to license, supervise and control Public Welfare 
Associations.  : Competent 
Authority  
Private Legal Persons licensed in accordance with the laws in force in the 
State, established with the intention of practicing one or more Public 
Welfare Activities, and taking one of the forms stipulated in this Decree 
by Law and Executive Regu lations thereof, without primarily aiming to 
achieve profit.  : Public Welfare 
Associations  
Activities included in the Public Welfare Associations Classification Guide 
and the Public Welfare Activities they practice, referred to in Clause (2) of 
article (4 ) of this Decree by Law.  : Public Welfare 
Activities  
Group consisting of natural persons, established for a specific or 
indefinite period with the intention of practicing one or more Public 
Welfare Activities and not aiming to achieve profit.  : Associatio n 
Legal Person created by one or more natural persons Founders, for a 
specific or indefinite period, based on the allocation of money for 
practicing one or more Public Welfare Activities that do not aim to 
achieve profit.  : National 
Society  
Group that in cludes at least five (5) National Societies or Associations 
that practice similar Public Welfare Activities.  : Union  
Fund created by Legal Persons, for a specific or indefinite period, to 
enhance the spirit of solidarity and interdependence among the 
Memb ers affiliated with the Fund.  : Social 
Solidarity 
Fund  
Ministry central database related to Public Welfare Associations in the 
State.  : Register  
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  71 
 Article (2)  
Scope of Application  
1. Provisions of this Decree by Law shall be applicable to the Public Welfa re Associations licensed 
the region of the State, including the Free Zones.  
2. Subject to Clause (3) of this Article, Public Welfare Associations established pursuant to Local 
Decrees or Laws shall be excluded from the provisions of this Decree by Law.  
3. In all cases, Associations excluded in Clause (2) of this Article shall comply with the provisions 
contained in Articles (7), (50), (51), (52), (53), (54) and (55) of this Decree by Law.  
 
Article (3)  
Forms of the Public Welfare Associations  
The Forms of Pu blic Welfare Associations shall be as follows:  
1. Associations.  
2. National Society.  
3. Unions.  
4. Social Solidarity Funds  
5. Any other forms determined by the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
 
Article (4)  
Public Welfare Activities  
1. Public We lfare Activities pursuant to the provisions of this Decree by Law shall be determined 
in the social, cultural, scientific, educational, professional, creative, artistic, recreational, and 
environmental fields, providing humanitarian services, and achieving  a purpose of righteousness 
or solidarity.  
2. The Cabinet shall issue, based on the Minister proposal, in coordination with the Local 
Authority, a resolution to adopt a Guide to classifying Public Welfare Associations and the Public 
Welfare Activities they  practice, provided that the Ministry, in coordination with the Local 
Authority, shall update this Guide periodically and in cases that require it.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  72 
 3. The Ministry, in coordination with the Local Authority, shall apply the Guide referred to in 
Clause (2) o f this Article to Public Welfare Associations and Public Welfare Activities that they are 
licensed to practice.  
 
Article (5)  
Practice of Public Welfare Activities  
1. No group or entity may practice any Public Welfare Activities unless it completes the 
proc edures for license it with the Local Authority and approve it from the Ministry, register it in 
the Register and obtaining the necessary approvals and permits from the Competent Authorities 
that supervise the practice of its Activities in accordance with t he legislation in force in the State.  
2. No Natural or Legal Person may allow the occupancy, rent, or use of any of its facilities to a 
Public Welfare Association that is not registered and licensed in accordance with the provisions 
of this Decree by Law a nd Executive Regulations thereof.  
3. Branches of Foreign Public Welfare Associations shall not be granted.  
 
Article (6)  
Obligations of the Competent Authority Employees  
Competent Authority Employees, working for the Competent organisational Unit s responsi ble 
for supervising and controlling Public Welfare Associations, may not join or work for any of the 
Public Welfare Associations subject to the supervision and control of the Competent Authority 
for which they work.  
 
Article (7)  
Register  
1. A Register shal l be created in the Ministry to register the Public Welfare Associations.  
2. The Competent Authority shall record all data and information related to Public Welfare 
Associations licensed by it and notified by the Ministry, and everything related to the con duct of 
these Associations Activities and any update that occurs to their data in the Register in accordance Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  73 
 with the mechanisms, controls and procedures specified by the Executive Regulations of this 
Decree by Law.  
 
Chapter Two  
Associations Establishment  
Article (8)  
Requirements for the Establishment of Association  
1. The following requirements shall be fulfilled to establish Association:  
a. The number of Founding Members shall not be less than (7) seven Members.  
b. The Founding Members holding the nationality of the State shall not be less than (70%) 
of the total number of Founding Members. Persons who do not hold the nationality of the 
State may participate in establishing Associations in accordance with the following 
controls:  
1) The Founding Members number shal l not exceed 30% of the total number of 
Founding Members.  
2) The Founding Member has no diplomatic status.  
3) The Founding Member has valid Residence Permit in the State for a period of no less 
than (3) three years.  
c. The Founding Member shall be of the legal age in accordance with the legislation in force 
in the State.  
d.  The Founding Member shall be of good conduct and of good reputation, and has no 
history of imprisonment penalty in a felony or misdemeanour of breaching honour or 
trust, unless he has been rehabili tated.  
e. The Association shall have By -laws in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by 
Law and Executive Regulations thereof.  
2. Any other conditions determined by the Ministry or Local Authority.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  74 
 3. All conditions or certain conditions stipulated i n this Article may be excluded pursuant to a 
resolution issued by the Cabinet based on the Minister proposal in coordination with the Local 
Authority.  
 
Article (9)  
Association By -laws  
1. The Founding Members shall meet to establish the Association By -laws,  provided that the 
Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the provisions, data and information 
that shall be included in this By -law.  
2. The Ministry, in coordination with the Local Authority, shall prepare a form for the Association 
By-laws, that the Ministry shall observe.  
 
Article (10)  
Membership in the Association  
Membership in the Association shall consist of all Founding Members, and everyone who joins 
the Association in accordance with its By -laws, and the same conditions stipulate d for the 
Founding Members apply to them.  
 
Article (11)  
Temporary Committee  
The Founding Members shall elect from among themselves a Temporary Committee of no less 
than (3) three Members who shall select from among its Members a Member to represent them 
in completing the procedures for announcing and licensing the Association in accordance with 
the provisions of this Decree by Law and Executive Regulations thereof. The work of the 
Temporary Committee shall end with the election of the BOD in accordance with  the provisions 
of article (15). Of this Decree by Law.  
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  75 
 Article (12)  
Procedures for Establishment of Association  
1. The application to establish the Association shall be submitted to the Competent Authority 
according to the form through the channels appro ved by it. The Executive Regulations of this 
Decree by Law shall specify the documents and materials that shall be submitted with the 
application.  
2. The Competent Authority shall review the application to establish the Association, in 
accordance with the procedures and controls stipulated in the Executive Regulations of this 
Decree by Law, and issue the licence after the Ministry approval.  
3. Within (10) ten working days from the date of its approval of the licence, the Ministry shall 
issue a resolution an nouncing the Association, provided that this resolution includes the name of 
the Association, the location of its main management centre, its department of activity, the scope 
of its work in the State, its objectives, and any data or information specified by the Resolution.  
4. The Competent Authority shall renew the licence of the Association, in accordance with the 
procedures and controls stipulated in the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
 
Article (13)  
Appeal  
1. If the Declaration Application i s rejected, the Temporary Committee may appeal to the Minister 
within (30) thirty days from the date of receipt of the notification of the Resolution rejecting the 
Declaration, and the Appeal shall be decided by a reasoned resolution within (30) thirty day s 
from the date of its submission.  
2. The Complainant has the right to resort to the Court within (60) sixty days from the date of 
being notified of the rejection of the Appeal or the deadline prescribed for deciding the Appeal 
passes without responding to  it, whichever is sooner.  
 
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  76 
 Article (14)  
Legal Personality  
The Association shall acquire Legal Personality upon the issuance of a resolution declaring it, 
provided that this resolution is published in the Official Gazette.  
 
Article (15)  
Elect BOD Members of the Association  
The Temporary Committee referred to in article (11) of this Decree by Law shall summon the 
General Assembly to convene within a period not exceeding three (3) months from the date of 
issuance of the Resolution declaring the Association. All Members who meet the conditions for 
Membership shall be summoned to this Meeting to elect the BOD and discuss the topics that the 
Temporary Committee deems appropriate to present during this Meeting.  
 
Article (16)  
Practicing and Participating in Activi ties and Events  
In order to achieve its objectives, and after the approval of the Local Authority and the Ministry, 
the Association may do the following:  
1. Organise Activities and Events within the State (such as conferences, seminars, lectures, 
courses, and Meetings) and other Activities and Events that fall within the scope of its objectives 
or participating in them.  
2. Host persons from outside the State to participate in the Activities and Events it organises.  
3. Participate in Activities and Events or ganised by Associations and Associations outside the 
State that fall within the scope of their objectives.  
The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law specify the controls and procedures for 
organising and participating in Activities and Events.  
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  77 
 Article (17)  
Affiliation with Regional and International Associations and Organisations  
1. The Association may affiliate with, participate in, or become a Member of any Association or 
Association based outside the State that is similar to it in its objectives,  or deal with it, after the 
approval of the Local Authority and its authorisation from the Ministry in coordination with the 
Competent Authorities.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall determine the controls and procedures 
for affiliati on, participation, or joining Regional and international Associations and 
Organisations.  
 
Article (18)  
Implementing External Projects  
1. Without prejudice to the legislation in force in the State, the Association may practice any 
Activities or implement an y projects outside the State that fall within the scope of its purposes, 
after the approval of the Local Authority and the Ministry in coordination with the Competent 
Authorities.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the control s and procedures for 
Implementing External Projects.  
 
Article (19)  
Records and Documents  
1. The Association shall maintain its records and documents related to the nature of the 
Association work and Activities.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree b y Law shall specify the records and documents that 
shall be maintained, and the method and duration of their maintenance.  
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  78 
 Article (20)  
Branches Establishment  
The Association may establish branches within the State, in accordance with the controls and 
procedures specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
 
Article (21)  
Office Relocation  
The Association may relocate branches from one Emirate to another within the State, in 
accordance with the controls and procedures specified by the Execut ive Regulations of this 
Decree by Law.  
 
Chapter Three  
Association Management  
Article (22)  
The Board of Directors (BOD)  
1. The Association shall have a BOD whose Members shall not be less than (5) five Members and 
not more than (11) eleven Members. The Co mpetent Authority may approve an increase in the 
number of BOD Members to more than (11) eleven Members.  
2. The number of BOD Members who hold state citizenship shall not be less than (70%) of the 
total number of BOD Members specified in the Association By -laws.  
3. The BOD shall manage the Association affairs and provide the necessary means for it to carry 
out its Activities and achieve its objectives.  
4. The Association By -laws shall stipulate the powers of the BOD, the conditions that shall be met 
by its Members, their number, termination of their Membership, the procedures for summoning 
the BOD to convene, the validity of its Meetings and resolutions, and the mechanism for electing 
the BOD Chairman and distribute administrative positions, provided that th e BOD is elected by 
secret ballot.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  79 
 5. The BOD term shall be for a maximum of four (4) years, and the Member may be re -elected in 
accordance with the provisions contained in the Association By -laws.  
6. BOD Member shall not be less than (21) twenty -one Grego rian years at the time he is elected, 
and that the Member shall meet the conditions required for Founding Members.  
7. The Association shall submit to the Competent Authority applications for BOD Membership at 
least fifteen (15) days before the date of the General Assembly, to be decided.  
8. The BOD Chairman shall represent the Association before third parties and Judicial Authorities.  
 
Article (23)  
The Association Director  
1. The Association shall have a Director who shall be appointed by the BOD, from amon g its 
Members or from others, after the approval of the Competent Authority, provided that the 
Director is not the BOD Chairman or his Vice -Chairman.  
2. The Association Director shall be directly responsible to the BOD for the following:  
a. Carry out internal  executive work in the Association.  
b. Implement the policies, plans and programmes approved by the Association.  
c. Supervise the implementation of the Resolutions of the General Assembly and the BOD.  
d. Provide the Competent Authority with the data and documents i t requests.  
e. Any other tasks assigned to the Association Director in accordance with the Association 
By-laws.  
f. Any other tasks entrusted by the BOD.  
 
Article (24)  
BOD Membership  
1. Membership in the BOD may not be combined in more than one Association that a ims to 
achieve the same activity, with the exception of Membership in the Union. However, the Head of 
the Competent Authority or his authorised representative may approve the combination of 
Membership in more than one BOD if he deems it justified.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  80 
 2. Membe rship in the BOD may not be combined with work for the same Association with a wage 
or reward except with the approval of the Competent Authority.  
3. The Ministry or Local Authority may suspend or exclude any BOD Member, including the BOD 
Chairman, from ex ercising his duties on the BOD, for considerations of the public interest, in 
accordance with the procedures and provisions under the Executive Regulations of this Decree 
by Law.  
 
Article (25)  
Rewards  
Upon the proposal of the BOD and the approval of the Ge neral Assembly, a BOD Member may 
receive a reward for performing any work that is not related to his competence in the BOD, in 
accordance with the controls and procedures specified by the Executive Regulations of this 
Decree by Law.  
 
Chapter Four  
General A ssembly  
Article (26)  
General Assembly Formation  
1. The General Assembly shall consist of all Members who meet the conditions and duties of 
Membership up to the date of the General Assembly and who have been Members for at least 
three (3) months. The three -month requirement is excluded when attending the Meeting 
specified in article (15) of this Decree by Law.  
2. The Association BOD shall announce the lists of Members who have the right to attend the 
General Assembly Meetings, no less than fifteen (15) days before the date of the Meeting. The 
Ministry and the Local Authority shall be notified of these lists.  
3. The Ministry and the Local Authority may send a representative to attend the General Assembly 
Meetings, and the attendance of their representatives sh all be obligatory in the Meetings to elect Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  81 
 BOD Members. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law specify the powers and duties 
of the representative at these Meetings.  
 
Article (27)  
Meeting of the Ordinary General Assembly  
1. The General Assembly sh all hold, upon a request submitted by the Association BOD, a regular 
Meeting once a year within a period not exceeding (4) four months from the end of the 
Association fiscal year. This Meeting shall be called the Annual Regular General Assembly 
Meeting.  
2. After the approval of the Ministry and the Local Authority, the Ordinary General Assembly may 
be called to convene whenever necessary. In this case, the Meeting is called the Non -Annual 
Ordinary General Assembly Meeting.  
3. General Assembly Meetings may n ot be held if the number of Members who meet the 
conditions and duties of Membership and who have the right to attend these Meetings is less 
than (7) seven Members, or a number equal to the number of Members who participated in 
establishing the Association . 
4. Members shall invited and the Ministry and the Local Authority are notified to attend the 
General Assembly Meetings at least thirty (30) days before the date set for the Meeting. The 
invitation includes the agenda, place and time of the Meeting.  
5. Th e Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the circumstances in which Non -
Annual Ordinary General Assembly Meetings are called, the methods of invitation and their 
attachments.  
 
Article (28)  
Duties of the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting  
1. At its annual regular Meeting, the General Assembly shall consider matters within the scope 
of its purposes, specifically the following matters:  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  82 
 a. Approve the Minutes of the previous General Assembly Meeting after its approval by the 
Competent Authority.  
b. App rove the BOD Report on its work in the past year, activity programmes, and work plan 
for the new year.  
c. The balance sheet of the new year and the closing account of the past fiscal year.  
d. Proposals submitted by Members within the date specified by the Associ ation By -laws.  
e. Electing the BOD or filling vacant positions.  
f. Select the Auditor and determine his remuneration.  
g. Any new updates.  
2. The General Assembly in its Extraordinary Meeting shall consider the following matters:  
a. Decide on the resignations submitted by  all or some of the BOD Members, in case this 
violates the quorum of the BOD.  
b. Fill vacant positions if necessary to maintain a quorum for the BOD.  
c. Any urgent matters that affect the conduct of the Association work require an invitation to 
the Ordinary Gene ral Assembly, which does not fall within the jurisdiction of the 
Extraordinary General Assembly.  
 
Article (29)  
Regular Meetings Quorum  
1. The Ordinary General Assembly Meeting shall be deemed valid if attended by more than half 
of the Members who meet the conditions and duties of Membership and who have the right to 
attend the Meeting according to the lists announced by the BOD.  
2. If a quorum is not available, the Meeting shall be postponed to another date not less than (7) 
days and not more than (15) fift een days from the date of the first Meeting. The second Meeting 
shall be considered valid if attended by a quarter of the Members or (7) seven Members, 
whichever is more.  
3. The General Assembly shall pass its resolutions by the majority of the votes of th ose present.  
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  83 
 Article (30)  
Meeting of the Extraordinary General Assembly  
1. The General Assembly may be called to Extraordinary Meeting based on a request from the 
Ministry or Local Authority, or by a resolution from the Association BOD, or a request submi tted 
by a quarter of the Members who meet the conditions and duties of Membership to the 
Association BOD.  
2. Members shall invited and the Ministry and the Local Authority shall be notified to attend the 
General Assembly Meetings at least thirty (30) days before the date set for the Meeting.  
3. If the BOD does not invite the General Assembly in accordance with Clause (1) of this Article, 
the Ministry or the Local Authority shall invite the General Assembly to convene.  
4. In all cases, the Association shall bear all costs and expenses related to calling the Extraordinary 
General Assembly.  
 
Article (31)  
Duties of the Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting  
1. The Extraordinary General Assembly shall specifically consider the following matters:  
a. Revoke the Member ship of one or more members of the BOD.  
b. Revoke any of the BOD resolutions.  
c. Amend the main activity or purpose for which the Association is established.  
d. Decide on amendments to the Association By -laws after the Ministry approval, in 
coordination with the Lo cal Authority.  
e. Transfer the Association Main Office from one Emirate to another after taking into 
account the requirements of article (21) of this Decree by Law.  
f. Propose the merger of the Association into another Association similar to it in purposes. 
The merger proposal is considered a joining request approved by the Extraordinary 
General Assembly of the Association to be merged with similar procedures. The 
Resolution to approve the merger shall include the implementation procedures and its 
effects.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  84 
 g. The As sociation Optional Liquidation.  
2. The General Assembly may not consider matters not included in the agenda.  
 
Article (32)  
Minutes of the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly Meetings  
The Association BOD shall provide the Competent Authority with th e Minutes of the Ordinary 
and Extraordinary General Assembly within (7) seven days from the date of the Meeting, for 
approval.  
 
Article (33)  
Quorum of the Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting  
1. The Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting is considered va lid in the presence of three -
quarters of the Members who meet the conditions and duties of Membership and who have the 
right to attend General Assembly Meetings. If a quorum is not available, the Meeting shall be 
postponed to another date whose duration is  not less than (15) fifteen days and not more than 
(30). Thirty days from the date specified for the first Meeting, and the second Meeting is 
considered valid in the presence of two -thirds of the eligible Members. If a quorum is not 
achieved, the General A ssembly will not be called to consider any of the items on the agenda 
before at least (6) six months have passed from the date of the Meeting in which it has been 
postponed.  
2. The Extraordinary General Assembly shall issue its resolutions with the approva l of three -
quarters of the Members present.  
 
Article (34)  
Power of Attorney  
A Member of the General Assembly may delegate another Member who fulfils the conditions and 
duties of Membership to represent him in attending General Assembly Meetings in accordan ce 
with the provisions contained in the Association By -laws in this regard. A Member may not Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  85 
 represent more than one Member, and the authorisation shall be in writing. And approved by the 
Association BOD or its authorised representative.  
 
Chapter Five  
The Association Funds  
Article (35)  
Financial Resources  
The Association Financial Resources shall consist of:  
1. The fees charged for the Association Membership in accordance with its By -laws.  
2. Revenues from the Activities and services carried out by the Ass ociation that are commensurate 
with its objectives and competencies in accordance with its By -laws.  
3. Revenues of investments made by the Association and declared in accordance with the 
provisions of this Decree by Law.  
4. Donations, gifts, bequests, gran ts and subsidies received by the Association in accordance with 
the legislation in force in the State.  
5. All other revenues stipulated in the By -laws or approved by the Competent Authority.  
 
Article (36)  
The Association Funds Nature  
1. Subject to the spec ial nature of the Funds of Social Solidarity Funds, the Association Funds are 
considered its property, and its Members have no right to them, and the withdrawing or 
dismissed Member has no right to these Funds or claim any part of them.  
2. Any concerned Me mber of the Association, their heirs, or others may request that the 
Association recover the Funds or assets provided by the Member on loan or as a recover.  
 
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  86 
 Article (37)  
Bank Accounts  
1. Each Association shall have one or more bank accounts in any of th e national banks operating 
in the State.  
2. The local currency shall be the base currency for these accounts, and after the approval of the 
Competent Authority, the Association may have one or more accounts in foreign currency after 
providing justification s for this.  
3. Bank accounts for Associations shall be opened pursuant to a certificate issued by the 
Competent Authority. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the controls 
and procedures for opening, managing, and closing bank acc ounts for Associations, and dealing 
with violating bank accounts.  
4. The Association shall deposit its cash Funds in its name in its bank accounts, and it may not 
disburse them before depositing them in these accounts.  
5. Banks and Financial Institutions m ay not open any bank accounts for Public Welfare 
Associations unless they are registered and licensed, and after obtaining the certificate referred 
to in Clause (3) of this Article.  
6. The Association shall notify the Competent Authority of the details of the bank accounts within 
(10) ten days from the date of opening these accounts and of every change that occurs to the 
bank in which its Funds are deposited.  
 
Article (38)  
The Association Funds Investment  
1. The Association shall spend its money to achieve the purposes for which it is established. It 
may not engage in financial speculation, or distribute any revenues or returns to Members of its 
BOD, Founders, Members of its General Assembly, or employees.  
2. The Association may, after the approval of the Co mpetent Authority, invest its Funds in excess 
of its needs so that it has a financial return that helps it achieve its objectives.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  87 
 3. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the controls and procedures for 
the Association Funds Invest ment.  
 
Article (39)  
Final Accounts and Draft Annual Budget  
1. Each Association shall have a final account approved by one of the approved Audit Offices in 
the State, which is prepared annually at the end of the Association fiscal year, and the draft 
annual  budget for the new year.  
2. The Association BOD shall submit, to the Ministry and the Local Authority, a copy of the final 
account of the previous year and the draft budget for the new year no later than (15) fifteen 
days after their approval by the Gener al Assembly.  
 
Article (40)  
Associations Support  
Annual financial allocations are allocated in the Ministry budget to support Associations, and the 
types of subsidies and how to benefit from them are regulated by a resolution of the Minister, 
according to t he following standards:  
1. The annual appropriations allocated to the Association in the State general budget.  
2. The duration of the Association need for support.  
3. The extent of the Association success in achieving its objectives.  
4. Periodic reports on  the Association activity and the extent of its compliance with the 
provisions of this Decree by Law, Executive Regulations thereof, the Resolutions issued in 
implementation thereof, and its By -laws.  
5. Any other standards determined by the Minister resolu tion.  
 
 
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  88 
 Chapter Six  
National Society  
Article (41)  
National Society Establishment  
The National Society shall be established by allocating money approved by the Competent 
Authority commensurate with the purpose of its establishment and the size of the Acti vities it 
carries out in order to achieve this purpose, provided that this amount is not less than (AED 
5,000,000) five million dirhams upon establishment. This amount may be modified by increase 
or decrease by a resolution of the Cabinet based on the Mini ster proposal in coordination with 
the Local Authority.  
 
Article (42)  
Founders  
The following are required of the Founders of a National Society:  
1. The Founding Members holding the nationality of the State shall not be less than (70%) of 
the total number of F ounding Members. Persons who do not hold the nationality of the State 
may participate in establishing Associations in accordance with the following controls:  
a. The Founding Members number shall not exceed 30% of the total number of Founding 
Members.  
b. The Foun ding Member has no diplomatic status.  
c. The Founding Member has valid Residence Permit in the State for a period of no less than 
(3) three years.  
2. The Founding Member shall be of the legal age in accordance with the legislation in force in 
the State.  
3. The Foun ding Member shall be of good conduct and of good reputation, and has no history 
of imprisonment penalty in a felony or misdemeanour of breaching honour or trust, unless 
he has been rehabilitated.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  89 
 4. Any other controls and conditions determined by the Executiv e Regulation of this Decree by 
Law.  
5. All conditions or certain conditions stipulated in this Article may be excluded pursuant to a 
resolution issued by the Cabinet based on the Minister proposal in coordination with the 
Local Authority.  
 
Article (43)  
The By -laws of the National Society  
1. The Founding Members shall meet to establish the Association By -laws, provided that the 
Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the data and information that shall be 
included in this By -law.  
2. The Minist ry, in coordination with the Local Authority, shall prepare a form for the National 
Society By -laws, that the Ministry shall observe.  
3. In the event that the National Society is established pursuant to a notarised will, the will shall 
include all the data  and information specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law, 
and the will in this case shall be considered in accordance with the By -laws.  
 
Article (44)  
National Society BOD of Trustees  
1. Every National Society shall have a BOD of Truste es, consisting of at least (5) five Members, 
formed by the Founder or Founders, provided that the BOD term of Trustees shall not exceed (4) 
four years. The Competent Authority shall be notified of the formation and of every amendment 
to the BOD of Trustees . 
2. Membership in the BOD of Trustees is required to meet the same conditions stipulated for 
Membership in the BOD in Associations to the extent that is commensurate with the nature of 
the Association.  
3. The BOD of Trustees shall manage the National Soci ety in accordance with its By -laws, and its 
Chairman shall represent it before the Court and in its relations with others.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  90 
 Article (45)  
The provisions of Associations Apply to National Societies  
The provisions stipulated in this Decree by Law and Executive  Regulations thereof concerning 
Associations shall apply to National Societies, to the extent that is commensurate with their 
nature.  
 
Chapter Seven  
Unions  
Article (46)  
Unions Formation  
Associations and National Societies registered in accordance with the provisions of this Decree 
by Law may request the formation of unions among themselves in accordance with in the 
Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law. No Association or National Society may call itself a 
union unless it is composed of a number of Ass ociations or National Societies that is less than (5) 
five in number, and they shall unite in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by Law. The 
Unions existing at the time of entry into force of this Decree by Law shall regulate in accordance 
with the provisions of this Decree by Law and Executive Regulations thereof.  
 
Article (47)  
Union Tasks  
The Union Task with regard to the Associations or National Societies that join it is determined as 
follows:  
1. Supervise their common interests and guide and direct them to achieve their common 
objectives.  
2. Coordinate its efforts and working to improve the level of its services.  
3. Provide technical, financial and cultural assistance to it.  
4. Work to resolve any dispute that arises between them.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  91 
 5. Any other  tasks determined by the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
 
Article (48)  
The Provisions of Associations Shall Apply to Unions  
The provisions stipulated in this Decree by Law and its Executive Regulations concerning 
Associations shall apply to Un ions in matters for which there is no special provision in this 
Chapter, to the extent commensurate with their nature.  
 
Chapter Eight  
Social Solidarity Funds  
Article (49)  
The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law specify the controls and procedures f or 
establishing and announcing Social Solidarity Funds, their control, and the procedures for their 
dissolution, liquidation, and merger.  
 
Chapter Nine  
Common Provisions  
Article (50)  
Obligations of the Public Welfare Associations  
Public Welfare Association s shall comply as follows:  
1. Respect the State constitution, laws, and applicable legislation.  
2. Apply the best practices approved by the Competent Authority to address weaknesses, enable 
it to protect itself from misuse in illegal financing, especially terrorist financing and the financing 
of illegal organisations.  
3. Establish clear policies to enhance transparency, integrity, and public confidence in its 
administration.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  92 
 4. Establish an organisational and functional structure, procedures and internal co ntrol controls 
for the Association.  
5. Conduct financial transactions through official channels in accordance with the legislation in 
force in the State.  
6. Transparency, publicity and disclosure, and announcing its sources of funding, the names of its 
mem bers, its annual budget, and its activities, and it is committed to publishing this through the 
means of publication available to it or determined by the Competent Authority.  
7. Follow the rules of good governance and management, and that Associations have  an internal 
By-law that includes sections for procurement, financial affairs, human resources, and penalties, 
and that they have a professional conduct codes.  
8. Enable any of its Members to view its records, papers, and documents whenever the Member 
officially requests this.  
9. Update all data, information and documents of Associations periodically and accurately within 
their records, including details of activities, events and projects, and the cooperation formulas it 
concludes with any party and their s ources of Funding.  
10. To establish a suitable Office for its management centre to manage its activity, provided that 
the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law specify the necessary controls for this.  
11. The Competent Authority shall renew the licen ce in accordance with the procedures and 
controls stipulated in the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
12. Obtain prior approval to issue any cultural, media, literary, informational, or other audio, 
visual, or reading product for publishing or c irculating it through audio, visual, print, or digital 
media.  
13. Pay taxes and fees in accordance with the legislation in force in the State in this regard.  
14. Any other obligations in implementation of the legislation in force in the State.  
15. Any othe r obligations determined by the Competent Authority, pursuant to the Resolutions 
issued by it in this regard.  
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  93 
 Article (51)  
Prohibitions  
Public Welfare Associations and their Members may not do the following:  
1. Practice any Public Welfare activity other than those stipulated in its By -laws.  
2. Practice any political or partisan activity, collecting information, interfering in politics or 
matters affecting the security of the State and its law of government, or using its Office for that 
purpose, or provoki ng sectarian, racial, or religious disputes.  
3. Affiliate, join, participate in, or deal with any illegal Associations or entities, or any natural or 
Legal Person belonging to it, whether inside or outside the State, or financing or providing support 
to th em in any way.  
4. Deal with, financing, or providing support to any illegal Association, terrorist Association, or 
entity, or any natural or Legal Person belonging to any of them.  
5. Form secret societies, companies, or formations of a secret, military, or  paramilitary nature, or 
calling for favouring, supporting, or financing violence or terrorist organisations.  
6. Practice activities that would disturb public order, public morals, Emirati customs and 
traditions, or threaten the national security of the St ate. 
7. Call for discrimination between citizens or residents of the State on the basis of gender, origin, 
colour, language, religion or belief, or any activity that calls for racism, incitement to hatred, or 
other reasons that are contrary to the Constitu tion and the legislation in force in the State.  
8. Participate in supporting or financing the electoral campaigns of any candidate in elections and 
referendums, or presenting a candidate in those elections on behalf of the Association.  
9. Grant any profess ional or applied certificates without authorisation from the Competent 
Authorities in the State, or without an official partnership with one of the specialised universities 
or the Competent Authorities, and in accordance with the rules regulating this in t he State.  
10. Practice any Public Welfare Activities outside the spatial scope of the licence issued to him by 
the Competent Authority.  
11. Practice any Activities that require a licence or approval from a governmental entity, before 
obtaining a licence or  approval from that entity and the Competent Authority.  Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  94 
 12. Aim to make a profit for the Members of a Public Welfare Association, or engaging in an 
activity aimed at that, or distributing the Funds of a Public Welfare Association to its Members, 
employees,  or those responsible for its management.  
13. Conduct opinion polls, publishing or making their results available, or conducting field 
research or presenting their results, without obtaining prior approval from the Ministry and the 
relevant authorities in the State.  
14. Conclude agreement in any form with a foreign party outside the State before the Ministry 
approval, as well as any amendment to it.  
15. Deal in any way with embassies, consulates and diplomatic missions without obtaining 
permission from the Competent Authority, and without the approval of the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs in accordance with the procedures followed in this regard.  
16. Open branches or Offices outside the State.  
17. Interfere in the work of any State or Local Government Authority . 
18. Represent any individual or group before the Court in any lawsuits related to the interests of 
these individuals or groups.  
19. Raise and disseminate information that urges non -respect for the Constitution, laws and 
legislation in force in the State,  non -respect for judicial rulings, or prevention of their 
implementation.  
20. Publish information, news, or propaganda that would prejudice public order or harm the 
public interest, public security, or public morals.  
21. Hold courses, workshops, Meetings o r seminars, whether inside or outside the State, that 
would harm public order, harm the public interest or public security, or harm public morals.  
22. Work in any way under political cover.  
23. Any other prohibitions in implementation of the legislation in  force in the State.  
24. Any other prohibitions determined by the Competent Authority, pursuant to the Resolutions 
issued by it in this regard.  
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  95 
 Article (52)  
Controls and Procedures to Combat Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing  
The Ministry, in coord ination with the Local Authority, undertakes the following:  
1. Evaluate risks in Public Welfare Associations periodically, classify them in accordance with 
international requirements and the Guide referred to in Clause (2) of article (4) of this Decree by 
Law, identify the sub -group, monitor them, and ensure their implementation of their obligations.  
2. Develop policies and issuing the necessary measures to ensure the accountability and integrity 
of Public Welfare Associations, and implementing awareness an d education programmes on all 
topics related to Combat Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing.  
3. Exchange data and information related to Public Welfare Associations in the State at all local, 
regional and international levels, in order to confront mone y laundering and combat the 
financing of terrorism.  
4. Any other tasks determined by the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
 
Article (53)  
Supervision and Follow -Up 
1. The Competent Authority has the right to supervise the Public Welfare Associati ons 
programmes and projects within the scope of its objectives specified in its By -laws and it may 
organise training courses, provide technical advice and various aspects of care in order to raise 
the level of services and achieve efficiency in performance . 
2. The Local Authority shall provide the Ministry with any data or information it requests 
concerning programmes and projects related to Public Welfare Associations subject to its 
supervision.  
 
Article (54)  
Control and Inspection  
1. Public Welfare Associ ations shall be subject to the supervision of the Competent Authority in 
all administrative, technical and financial aspects in order to confirm the aspects of expenditure Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  96 
 and the proper direction of their financial and in -kind resources for the purposes a nd projects 
that they undertake in accordance with their By -laws. For this purpose, the Competent Authority 
may review the records and documents of Public Welfare Associations and request any data or 
reports from them.  
2. The Local Authority shall provide the Ministry with any reports, data, or information it requests 
related to the results of the supervision and inspection it carries out on Public Welfare 
Associations subject to its supervision.  
3. The Ministry may coordinate with the Local Authority to co nduct its inspection of any Public 
Welfare Associations subject to the supervision of the Local Authority in cases that require this.  
 
Article (55)  
Solution and Liquidation  
The Competent Authority may issue a resolution to dissolve and liquidate Public Wel fare 
Associations based on the proposal of a committee formed for this purpose, provided that its 
Membership includes representatives from the Ministry, if one of the following cases exists:  
1. If it violates the provisions of article (50) or (51) of this Decree by Law, without prejudice to 
the criminal liability resulting from that.  
2. If it is proven that it has carried out actions that conflict with public order or public morals.  
3. If the number of Members decreases below the limit specified in Paragrap h (A) of Clause (1) of 
article (8) of this Decree by Law.  
4. If it becomes clear that its work has no longer seriously achieved the purposes for which it is 
established, or that it is incapable of achieving these purposes.  
5. If it disposes of its funds in  other than the aspects specified thereto according to its purposes.  
6. If it becomes unable to fulfil its financial obligations.  
7. If it rejects to inspect it or provide incorrect data with the intention of misleading.  
8. If it commits a serious violatio n of its By -laws or the provisions of this Decree by Law.  
9. If it is not possible to convene its General Assembly for two consecutive years.  
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  97 
 Article (56)  
Solution and Liquidation Alternatives  
Without prejudice to the provisions of Clauses (1) and (2) of article (55) of this Decree by Law, 
instead of dissolving and liquidating a Public Welfare Association, the Competent Authority may 
take one of the following measures:  
1. A Temporary BOD shall be appointed, by a reasoned resolution, from among the Members,  to 
assume the powers of the elected BOD, for a period of (6) six months, renewable for another 
similar period or periods. The BOD Members and employees working in the Public Welfare 
Association shall take the initiative to hand over the Temporary BOD, onc e all funds, records and 
documents are formed.  
2. Appoint a Director of the Association for a period of (6) six months, renewable for a similar 
period. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall determine the powers and duties 
of the Director in  this case.  
3. Merge the Public Welfare Association into another similar Association to it in its purposes and 
activities, provided that the merger resolution is issued after the approval of the Public Welfare 
Association into which the merger will take pl ace.  
The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the controls and procedures for 
implementing the provisions of this Article, including the provisions of the merger and its effects.  
 
Article (57)  
Optional Liquidation  
Subject to the text o f article (59) of this Decree by Law, a Public Welfare Association may be 
voluntarily liquidated by a resolution of the Extraordinary General Assembly or a resolution 
issued by the Founders of the National Society or a majority of the BOD Members of Truste es, 
provided that the Ministry and the Local Authority are notified of the location of this assembly 
before The date of the hearing is at least fifteen (15) days.  
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  98 
 Article (58)  
Disposing of the Funds of Public Welfare Associations After their Dissolution  
1. Those in charge of the affairs of any Public Welfare Association whose liquidation decision has 
been made, voluntarily or compulsorily, may not dispose its funds and documents except by a 
decision of the Competent Authority specifying the method of liqu idation in accordance with the 
controls specified by the Executive Regulations of this Law. The documents and the party to 
which the funds shall revert when this is not stipulated in the Association By -laws or when it is 
impossible to implement what is sti pulated in this Law.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall determine the controls and procedures 
for disposing of the Funds of Public Welfare Associations after their dissolution.  
 
Article (59)  
Completion of Liquidation Works  
In all case s, if the Public Welfare Association is dissolved and liquidated, it shall remain a legal 
entity to the extent necessary to complete the liquidation work. The Minister, in coordination 
with the Local Authority, shall issue a resolution to remove the Public  Welfare Association from 
the Register after completing the liquidation process in the required manner. The deletion 
resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette.  
 
Article (60)  
Exemptions and Benefits  
Public Welfare Associations subject to the pro visions of this Decree by Law shall enjoy the 
exemptions and benefits stipulated in accordance with the legislation in force in the State.  
 
 
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  99 
 Chapter Ten  
Administrative Penalties and Sanctions  
Article (61)  
Applying the Severer Penalty  
The imposition of th e penalties stipulated in this Decree by Law shall be without prejudice to any 
more severe penalty stipulated in any other law.  
 
Article (62)  
Penalties  
The following shall be punished by imprisonment and a fine of not less than (500,000) five 
hundred thous and dirhams, or by one of these two penalties:  
1. Anyone who establishes, organises, or manages a Public Welfare Association subject to the 
provisions of this Decree by Law, or opens a branch thereof in the State without its licence from 
the Competent Auth ority and its notification from the Ministry. In this case, the Public Welfare 
Association shall be considered dissolved by law and the Competent Court shall decide order the 
closure of violating premises.  
2. Anyone who affiliates, joins, participates, or deals with illegal organisations or with any Natural 
or Legal Person belonging to them, whether inside or outside the State, or finances them or 
provides support to them in any way. In this case, the Public Welfare Association shall be 
considered dissolved  by law. The Competent Court may order the closure of the violating 
premises.  
3. Anyone who continues to practice Public Welfare Activities without taking each of the legal 
forms subject to the provisions of this Decree by Law despite being notified of the  regularisation 
and the expiration of the deadline specified in the notification.  
 
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  100 
 Article (63)  
Person Responsible for Actual Management  
The person responsible for the actual management of a Public Welfare Association shall be 
punished with the same pena lties for acts committed in violation of the provisions of this Decree 
by Law if it is proven that he is aware of them or if his violation of management duties facilitated 
their commission. The Public Welfare Association shall be jointly responsible for fu lfilling the 
financial penalties imposed in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by Law with those 
convicted of committing it.  
 
Article (64)  
Regulation of Violations and Administrative Sanctions  
Violations and administrative penalties shall be def ined for acts committed in violation of the 
provisions of this Decree by Law and the resolutions issued in implementation thereof by the 
bodies that impose penalties and the mechanism of appeal, and the Competent Authority 
concerned with collecting adminis trative fines, under a resolution issued by the Cabinet based on 
the proposal by the Minister and in coordination with the Competent Authority.  
 
Article (65)  
Judicial Enforcement  
The Minister of Justice, or the Head of the Local Judicial Authority, each wi thin his jurisdiction, 
and in agreement with the Chairman or the Head of the Competent Authority, may grant some 
employees the capacity of judicial enforcement officers, in proving what is committed in violation 
of the provisions of this Decree by Law and the regulations and decisions implementing it.  
 
 
 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  101 
 Chapter Eleven  
Final Provisions  
Article (66)  
Transferring the Jurisdiction of Technical Supervision and Disbursing Subsidies  
The Cabinet, based on the Minister proposal, has the right to transfer some of t he Ministry 
powers, namely technical supervision and disbursement of subsidies to Public Welfare 
Associations, to other ministries, departments, bodies and Public Organisations in the State and 
to Local Authorities in coordination with them, as the Ministr y deems necessary to achieve the 
purposes of the Association.  
 
Article (67)  
Appeals  
1. Subject to article (13) of this Decree by Law, any interested party may file a Appeal with the 
Competent Authority, as the case may be, concerning the Resolutions, proce dures or measures 
taken against him in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by Law and Executive 
Regulations thereof within (30) thirty days from the date of his notification of the Resolution or 
the action or measure complained of.  
2. The Appeal referred to in Clause (1) of this Article shall be decided within thirty (30) days from 
the date of its submission. The decision issued regarding the Appeal shall be final, and this shall 
not preclude an appeal against this decision before the Competent Co urt. 
 
Article (68)  
Executive Regulations  
The Cabinet shall, based on the proposal of the Minister in coordination with the Competent 
Authority, shall issue the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law within six (6) months as of 
the date of its publicat ion in the Official Gazette.  
 Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  102 
 Article (69)  
Executive Resolutions  
The Minister and the Head of the Local Authority shall issue the Executive Resolutions necessary 
to apply the provisions of this Law and its Executive Regulations.  
 
Article (70)  
Regularisatio n 
1. Public Welfare Associations existing at the time of entry into force of this Decree by Law and 
not notified by the Ministry shall apply Regularisation and submit a request for their declaration 
to the Ministry in accordance with the provisions of this  Decree by Law and Executive 
Regulations thereof, within a period not exceeding one year from the date of its implementation. 
The period may be extended for other periods by resolution from the Cabinet based on the 
Minister proposal.  
2. Community Associati ons and Clubs licensed at the time of entry into force of this Decree by 
Law shall be excluded from Paragraph (B/1) of Clause (1) of article (8) of this Decree by Law 
when they apply Regularisation.  
3. The Local Authority shall oblige the Public Welfare As sociations licensed by it at the time of 
entry into force of this Decree by Law to apply Regularisation in accordance with the provisions 
of this Decree by Law within the period specified in Clause (1) of this Article.  
4. The Local Authority may exempt Pub lic Welfare Associations licensed by it at the time of entry 
into force of this Decree by Law from the provisions relating to Regularisation due to their nature, 
provided that they are released by the Ministry within a period not exceeding one year from th e 
date of implementation of this Decree by Law. This period may be extended for other periods by 
a resolution of the Cabinet based on the Minister proposal in coordination with the Local 
Authority, by applying the provisions contained in Articles (7), (50) , (51), (52), (53), (54) and (55) 
of this Decree by Law.  
5. The Cabinet, based on the Minister proposal, excludes any Public Welfare Association licensed 
at the time of entry into force of this Decree by Law from any provision relating to Regularisation, Federal Decree by Law No. (50) of 2023  Concerning the Regulations of Public Welfare Association  103 
 by applying the provisions contained in Articles (7), (50), (51), (52), and (53) and (54) and (55) of 
this Decree by Law.  
 
Article (71)  
Repeals  
1. Federal Law No. (2) of 2008 concerning Public Welfare Associations and National Societies, as 
amended are repe aled, as is every provision that violates or conflicts with the provisions of this 
Decree by Law and Executive Regulations thereof.  
2. The Executive Regulations and Resolutions issued pursuant to Federal Law No. (2) of 2008 
concerning Public Welfare Associ ations and National Societies, as amended in effect upon the 
issuance of this Decree by Law shall continue to be implemented in a manner that does not 
conflict with its provisions until the regulations and resolutions implementing it are issued.  
 
Article ( 72) 
Publication and Entry Into Force of Decree by Law  
This Law by Decree shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force after(6) 
six months from the date of its publication.  
 
 
 
Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab  Emirates  
 
 
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace – Abu Dhabi:  
On: 17 Rabi' I, 1445 H  
Corresponding to: October 02, 2023  
 