 
Federal Decree- Law No. (10) of 2019 On the Protection Against Domestic Violence  1 
 Federal Decree- Law No. (10) of 2019  
On the Protection Against Domestic Violence 
 
We, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan,  the President of the United Arab Emirate,  
− Having reviewed:  
− The Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 , on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (9) of 1976 , on Juvenile Offenders and Homeless People;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 , Enacting the UAE Civil Transactions Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 1987 , Enacting the Penal Code, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (11) of 1992, Enacting the Civil Procedure Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (35) of 1992, Enacting the Criminal Procedure Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (14) of 1995, on Combating Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances;  
− Federal Law No. (28) of 2005, on Personal Status;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 2012, on Children of Unknown Parentage;  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 2016 , on Child Rights (known as Wadeema's Law);  
− Based on the Proposal submitted by the Minister of Community Development and the 
Cabinet's approval thereof,  
Hereby enact the following Decree -Law:  
 
Article (1)  
Objectives of the Decree- Law  
This Decree -Law aims at:  
1. Combating domestic violence, promoting family social cohesion and preserving family structure.  
   
Federal Decree- Law No. (10) of 2019 On the Protection Against Domestic Violence  2 
 2. Protecting personal privacy in a manner consistent with the legacy, customs and 
traditions in community.  
3. Modifying behaviors harmful to family, woman and child and preserving social and 
moral legacy, customs, traditions and norms in the State.  
  
Article (2)  
Applicability  
The provisions of this Decree -Law shall apply to the domestic violence crimes set forth 
therein.  
  
Article (3)  
Domestic Violence Concept  
For the purpose of applying this Decree -Law, domestic violence means any act, word, 
offence, abuse or threat committed by a family member against another family member beyond the guardianship, custody, dependency, power or responsibility vested in him, 
involving a bodily, psychological, sexual or economic harm.  
  
Article (4)  
Family Concept  
Upon applying the provisions of above article (3), a family includes the following:  
1. Husband and wife and their sons and grandsons.  
2. Sons of a spouse from another marriage.  
3. Father and mother of either spouse.  
4. Relatives by blood or marriage up to the fourth degree.  
5. Persons in the care of a foster family, pursuant to the provisions of statutes in force.  
  
 
  
Federal Decree- Law No. (10) of 2019 On the Protection Against Domestic Violence  3 
 Article (5)  
Types of Domestic Violence  
The following acts, as per the provisions of this Decree -Law, constitute a domestic violence, 
subject to the provisions of statutes in force in the State:  
1. Physical Abuse:  Means any assault by any means on the victim's body, even if it has no 
impact.  
2. Psychological Abuse:  Means any acts or words causing a psychological harm.  
3. Sexual Abuse:  Means any act constituting a sexual assault or harassment on the victim or 
exploitation of the same by any means.  
4. Economic Abuse:  Means  any act leading to depriving the victim of his right or freedom to 
dispose of his money with the intention of afflicting damage thereon.  
  
Article (6)  
Restraining Order  
The Public Prosecution may, of its own accord or at the victim's request, issue a restraining 
order obligating the abuser of the following:  
1. To stay away from the victim.  
2. To stay away from the places prescribed for protecting the victim or any other place 
mentioned in the restraining order.  
3. Not to afflict damage on personal property of the victim or any of his family members.  
4. To enable the victim or his delegate to receive his necessary personal belongings.  
5. Any other procedures the Public Prosecution deems necessary to include in the 
restraining order, which would provide an effective protection of the victim or any 
persons who are likely to be exposed to harm due to their relationship with the victim.  
  
Article (7)  
Effective Period of the Restraining Order and Appealing it  
1. The period of the restraining order, issued by the Public Prosecution, shall not exceed 
(30) thirty days. The Public Prosecution may renew such order for two similar periods  
Federal Decree- Law No. (10) of 2019 On the Protection Against Domestic Violence  4 
 not exceeding (60) sixty days.  
2. If the period referred to in above Item (1), the restraining order may be renewed by a 
decision by the competent court up to (6) months.  
3. Both the abuser and the victim may appeal the restraining order before the competent 
court, within (7) days from the date of its issuance.  
  
Article (8)  
Penalties  
Whoever violates a restraining order issued under the provisions of this Decree -Law shall be 
sentenced to imprisonment for not more than (3) months and/or a fine of not less than (AED 
1000) one thousand dirhams and not more than (AED 10,000) ten thousand dirhams.  
The penalty shall be doubled if the restraining order is violated by using violence against any 
person covered by the provisions of this Decree -Law.  
  
Article (9) 
1. Without prejudice to any severer penalty set forth in any other law, whoever commits 
any of the domestic violence acts set forth in article (5) hereof shall be sentenced to 
imprisonment for not more than six months and/or a fine of not more than (AED 5,000).  
2. The crimes set forth in Chapter VII, Book II of Federal Law No. (3) of 1987 , referred to 
hereinabove, or in any other law are considered domestic violence crimes, pursuant to the provisions of article (3) hereof, to which the provisions set forth therein shall be 
applied.  
3. The court may double the penalty if the perpetrator commits any of the domestic 
violence acts set forth in article (5) hereof within a year from committing the previous 
act. 
  
Article (10)  
Reconciliation  
The Public Prosecution shall, before proceeding with the action related to domestic violence  
Federal Decree- Law No. (10) of 2019 On the Protection Against Domestic Violence  5 
 crimes, propose reconciliation to the victim, pursuant to the controls and procedures set 
forth in Federal Law No. (35) of 1992, referred to herein above.  
  
Article (11)  
Final Provisions  
The Cabinet may issue resolutions, regulations and statutes necessary for fulfilling the objectives of this Decree -Law and implementing the provisions thereof, upon a proposal by 
the Minister of Community Development.  
  
Article (12) 
Any provisions contradicting the provisions of this Decree -Law or are in conflict therewith 
shall be repealed.  
  
Article (13)  
Publication and Entry into Force  
This Decree -Law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force from 
the date to be set by a Cabinet's resolution.  
  
 
Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
The President of the United Arab Emirate  
 
Issued by us at Abu Dhabi Presidential Palace  
Dated: 28 th Zulhijjah 1440 AH,  
Corresponding to: 29 th August 2019 AD  
 
 