 
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  1 
 Federal Law No (29) of 2006  
Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  
 
We, Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,                    President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Having reviewed:  
− The constitution; and  
− Federal law No (1) of 1972 concerning the jurisdictions of ministries and powers of 
ministers and the amending laws thereto; and  
− Federal law No (11) of 1972 concerning compulsory education; and  
− Federal law No (12) of 1972 organizing clubs and societies  operating in the field of 
youth welfare; and  
− Federal law No (4) of 1976 establishing and organizing the United Arab Emirates University and the amending laws thereto; and  
− Federal law No (9) of 1976 concerning delinquent juveniles and the homeless; and  
− Federal law No (8) of 1980 regulating the labor relations and the amending laws thereto; and  
− The federal penal law No (3) of 1987 and the amending laws thereto; and  
− The penal procedure law promulgated by federal law No (35) of 1992 and the 
amending laws thereto; and  
− The pension and social insurance law promulgated by federal law No (7) of 1999 
and the amending laws thereto; and  
− Federal traffic law No (21) of 1995; and  
− Federal law No (25) of 1999 concerning the General Youth and Sports Authority ; and  
− Based on the proposals made by the Minister of Social Affairs, the approval of the  
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  2 
 Cabinet and the ratification of the Federal Supreme Council;  
Have promulgated the following law:  
  
Part One  
General Provisions  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In th is law, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively assigned 
to them unless the context otherwise requires:  
State  
 : 
 The United Arab Emirates  
 
Ministry  
 : 
 The Ministry of Social Affairs  
 
Minister  
 : 
 The Minister o f Social Affairs  
 
Competent 
authorities  
 : 
 Federal and local competent authorities with applying the 
provisions of this law.  
 
The disable  
 : 
 Any person suffering from total or partial deficiency or disorder, 
permanently or temporarily, in his physical, sensation, mental, 
communicative, educational or psychological abilities to an 
extent reducing the possibility of meeting his normal 
requirement s in conditions of his peers without special needs.  
  
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  3 
 Card  
 : 
 A personal card granted by the ministry to the disable and 
considered an official document to ensure its holder the rights 
and services set forth in this law and the executive regulations 
and d ecisions thereof.  
 
Discrimination  
 : 
 Any distinction, exclusion or restriction due to special needs that 
results in prejudicing, canceling, enjoying or exercising on an 
equal footing any of the rights prescribed under operative 
legislations in the state.  
 
Article (2)  
This law aims to secure the rights of the disables and provide all services within the limits of 
allowable abilities and capabilities. However, special needs may not form a reason for 
preventing the sufferer from securing such rights or services especially in the field of social, 
economic, health, educational, occupational, cu ltural and recreational care and services.  
  
Article (3)  
The state shall secure equality for the disable with his peers without special needs and 
non -discrimination due to special needs in all its legislations. The state shall also guarantee 
such equality and non -discrimination in all its policies and programs of economic and social 
development, and take appropriate measures to prevent discrimination on grounds of 
disability.  
   
  
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  4 
 Article (4)  
The ministry shall prepare, in coordination with the competent aut horities, awareness 
programs for the disable, his family and local environment in respect of whatever concerns 
the rights stipulated in this law and other legislations and the services provided for him.  
  
Article (5)  
No provision, criterion or practice bas ed on valid grounds shall be considered 
discrimination. The state shall guarantee all necessary measures to ensure that the disable 
enjoys his rights and freedoms and prevent any attack thereon and that he is arbitrarily deprived of them.  
  
Article (6)  
The state shall ensure legal assistance for the disable in all cases where his freedom is restricted for any legal reason. Any decision restricting such freedom shall require:  
1. Showing the disable a humane treatment considering his condition and needs in  such 
capacity.  
2. Giving him any necessary information and details related to the reasons for restricting his 
freedom.  
3. Offering him the appropriate assistance if he is unable to pay the judicial fees, expenses or fines in the manner determined by the d ecision of the Cabinet.  
  
Article (7)  
The state shall secure the exercise by the disable of his right of expression and express his 
opinion using Brail method, the sign language and other means of communication, and his 
right to request, receive and transm it information on an equal footing with others.   
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  5 
   
Article (8)  
The law shall provide the disable with the protection necessary for his correspondence, 
medical reports and personal matters. The executive regulations hereof shall determine the 
controls and me chanisms of the said protection.  
  
Article (9)  
The ministry shall establish -  in coordination with the competent authorities - care, training 
and qualification centers, institutions and institutes for the disables. Such centers, 
institutions and institutes shall assume the following functions:  
A. Qualifying disables for social adaptation and amalgamation.  
B. Providing education for disables.  
C. Providing vocational training programs for disables.  
D. Training the families of disables in dealing with such pers ons.  
  
Part Two  
Rights of persons with special needs  
Article (10)  
Every UAE national with a disability or disabilities shall have the right to health and 
rehabilitation and support services provided at the expense of the state, including:  
A. Surgical operations, whether resulting from special needs or not, including transplant, 
treatment of ulcers, limb refinement, treatment at specialist and other centers for intense or 
normal cases, including the provision of all equipment, instruments, aids and other 
necessities for successful operations, permanently or temporarily.  
B. Examinations and treatment by general practitioners, specialists, consultants, dentists,  
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  6 
 mental evaluation, audio -graphy, radiation, lab analyses and medicines.  
C. Rehabilitat ion and specialized treatment, internal and external, including physiotherapy, 
practical therapy, articulatory, audio and psychological therapy.  
D. Technological aids and auxiliary systems including mobile and immobile compensatory 
systems (limbs, hearing sets, artificial eyes, etc), rectifying shapes, movement aids (moving 
chairs, sticks, walking sticks, etc.), ulcers prevention and all tools used in surgical operations.  
  
Article (11)  
Formation by a Cabinet decision a committee called the "Specialized Com mittee for Health 
Services and Rehabilitation for the Disables", under the chairmanship of the Undersecretary 
of Health and membership of representatives of competent authorities. The Minister shall 
issue a regulation governing the work and meetings of the  committee.  
The committee shall, in particular:  
1. Provide diagnostic, therapic, qualifying services and develop existing health programs and 
services to improve the wellbeing of the disables.  
2. Design programs for early detection, diagnosis, awareness an d health education, and 
provide early specialized intervention in the field of disabilities.  
3. Provide, train and qualify human resources specialized in disabilities of all types.  
4. Prepare national studies to identify the reasons for, consequences, meth ods of prevention 
of disabilities and generalize the same to the competent authorities of the state.  
5. Submit periodical reports to the Minister in preparation for submission to the Cabinet to take whatever is deemed appropriate.  
  
Article (12)  
The state shall guarantee the disable equal educational opportunities at all institutions of  
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  7 
 education, vocational training, adult education and continuous education in regular or 
special classes if required, and provide a curriculum in sign language, Brail method or any other appropriate means.  
Disabilities shall not in themselves constitute reasons for preventing their sufferers from 
applying for affiliation to, joining or admission to any educational institution of any type, 
public or private.  
  
Article (13)  
The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research shall 
take appropriate measures jointly with the competent authorities to provide educational 
diagnoses and academic curricula, means and technologies available for  educational 
purposes, provide alternative methods to enhance communication with disables, develop alternative strategies for education, material environment and other necessary means for 
securing full participation of students with disabilities.  
  
Article (14)  
The Ministry of education and the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research 
shall, in cooperation with the competent authorities, provide academic specializations to 
prepare workers for dealing with disables and their families in the field s of diagnosis, early 
diagnosis, educational, social, psychological, medical and professional qualification and 
guarantee the provision of training programs during service to provide workers with 
advanced expertise and knowledge.  
  
Article (15)  
Formation a Cabinet decision a committee called the "Specialist Committee for the  
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  8 
 Education of Disables" chaired by the Undersecretary of Education and membership of 
representatives of the competent authorities. The Minister of Education shall issue a regulation gove rning the work and meetings of the committee.  
The committee shall, in particular:  
1. De sign executive programs to guarantee equal education opportunities for disables from 
early childhood at all educational institutions in their classes or specialized educational units.  
2. Develop a methodological structure for educational programs and prepare educational plans consistent with the spirit of the age and technological advancement in line with 
developmental and psychological traits of disables.  
3. Regulate all matters relating to the education of disables including programs, methods, 
conditions of joining regular classes and examinations.  
4. Draw policies to qualify and train human resources in education to the benefit of disables.  
5. Offer technical, technological and educational consultations and assistance to any 
educational institutions desir ing to receive disables, examine the financial requirements in 
relation to equipment, technologies and qualification of the educational institution environment.  
6. Submit periodical reports to the Minister to submit the same to the Cabinet to take 
whatever  measure that are deemed appropriate.  
   
Article (16)  
UAE nationals with disabilities shall have the right to work and occupy public jobs. Disability 
shall not in themselves preclude those nationals from nomination or selection for work. In 
case of conducting competency tests for work, disabilities  shall be considered for those 
subject to the provision of this law.   
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  9 
   
Article (17)  
The Ministry may contract other entities to implement qualification projects for disables. 
The Minister shall determine the terms , conditions and controls necessary for this purpose.  
  
Article (18)  
Legislations of the state shall show the measures to be taken to secure the occupation by 
disables of jobs in government and private sectors, working hours, leaves and other 
provisions re lated to disables, including controls for service terminations and entitlement for 
rewards and retirement pensions.  
The Cabinet shall, upon the Minister's proposal, determine job quota for persons with 
special needs in both of the government and private se ctors.  
  
Article (19)  
Formation a Cabinet decision a committee called the "Specialized Committee for the 
Employment of Disables" chaired by of the Undersecretary and membership of 
representatives of the competent authorities. The Minister shall issue a reg ulation governing 
the work and meetings of the committee.  
The committee shall, in particular:  
1. Draw necessary policies for the employment of disables and the requirements for achieving the highest possible efficiency while guaranteeing work continuity fo r the longest 
period possible.  
2. Encourage and support qualified disables to establish projects of economic feasibility and return, and provide information about available grants and loans and how they can be 
obtained.   
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  10 
 3. Provide information about the labor market, job availability and future prospects.  
4. Prepare studies about job in compliance with technological developments and labor 
market requirements.  
5. Encourage the private sector to train, qualify and employ dis ables and provide it with 
proper support within available capabilities.  
6. Propose necessary measures to protect disables from all forms of job exploitation.  
7. Submit periodical reports to the Minister submit to the Cabinet to take the measures it 
deems a ppropriate.  
   
Article (20)  
The state shall take necessary measures to ensure the participation of disables in cultural, 
sports and recreational life by:  
1. Develop the creative, artistic and intellectual abilities of disables and utilize the same to the b enefit of social enrichment.  
2. Provide literary and cultural materials of all available types for disables, including 
electronic texts, sign language, Brail method, audio forms, multimedia, etc.  
3. Enable the disable to benefit from information programs and media, theatrical and artistic 
shows, all cultural activities, enhancing his participation therein and exempting him from the fees thereof.  
4. Enhance participation of the disable in national, regional and international sports activities.  
5. Submit peri odical reports to the Minister submit to the Cabinet to take the measures it 
deems appropriate.  
  
  
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  11 
 Article (21)  
Formation a Cabinet decision a committee called the "Specialized Committee for the Sports, 
Culture and Recreation of Disables" chaired by Youth and Sports Authority Secretary 
General and membership of representatives of competent authorities. The Cabinet shall 
issue a regulation governing the work and meetings of the committee that shall, in 
particular:  
1. Draw policies ensuring integrated develop ment for disables and giving them a chance to 
engage in sports, cultural and recreational activities featuring fun, safety and suitability for 
their abilities, and create suitable conditions for practicing them in a manner that is basically similar to their peers without disabilities.  
2. Broaden the base of practice of sports, cultural and recreational activities among disables, ensuring the involvement in mental, kinetic and sensual aspects of sports of persons with 
special needs in the educational program s of specialized institutions.  
3. Design programs to prepare qualified human resources to work with disables, cultural and recreations areas.  
4. Encourage the integration of disables with their peers without disabilities in sports and cultural centers and clubs, camps and provide suitable games and activities for them.  
5. Submit periodical reports to the Minister submit to the Cabinet to take the measures it 
deems appropriate.  
   
Article (22)  
Any disable shall have the right to an adapted environment and access to the place accessible to others.  
    
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  12 
 Article (23)  
The competent authorities shall coordinate among themselves to set engineering stand ards 
and specifications for public facilities and utilities in relation to which a Cabinet decision 
shall be issued upon a proposal of the Minister. The decision shall set the necessary controls 
to enforce such standards and specifications and exemptions t herefrom in conjunction with 
adapting facilities for the use of disables, his needs, safety requirements and protection from 
injury.  
The provisions of this decision shall apply to the government and private sectors, unless 
exempted by a special provision.  
  
Article (24)  
The Cabinet shall issue regulations and conditions for the acquisition by the disabled of a 
government residence, and determine the residence specifications, the rules for its 
acquisition and other rules regulating government housing.  
  
Article (25)  
1. Roads, public vehicles, land, air and sea transports must meet the technical standards 
required for the use and requirement of the disabled.  
2. The Cabinet shall determine by a decision the conditions required for the disable needs to obtain a driving licence and relevant controls. A new category shall be added to the driving 
license, within the traffic law, relating to disables and necessary information shall be noted 
thereon depending on the type of disability.  
  
Article (26)  
Every insurance c ompany shall insure the vehicles of the disabled when it is required to do  
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  13 
 so. 
  
Article (27)  
Vehicles reserved for the use of disables shall be exempted from all taxes and duties, based 
on a handicap certificate from the Ministry. Such exemption may not b e granted for another 
vehicle except after the elapse of five years from the date of previous exemption or damage of the vehicle. If the vehicle is disposed of within such period, prescribed taxes and duties 
shall be levied.  
  
Article (28)  
Vehicles reserved for disables shall be exempted from parking fees.  
  
Article (29)  
Transportation means of societies and centers concerned with persons of special needs as 
determined by the Cabinet shall be exempted from licensing fees.  
  
Article (30)  
The Cabinet shall determine the societies and centers concerned with persons of special 
needs that shall be exempted from fees relating to building permit applications for erecting 
building for the use of such persons pursuant to a relevant certificate from th e Minister.  
  
Article (31)  
Lawsuits filed by disables in the context of enforcing this law shall be exempted from 
judicial fees.  
   
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  14 
 Article (32)  
Exemptions shall be effected on postal fees and charges to all correspondence relevant to 
disables, societies or  centers relevant to persons with special needs as determined by the 
cabinet, including books, newspapers, magazines, etc.  
   
Article (33)  
Without prejudice to any severer penalty in any other law, a fine of not less than AED 1000 
and not exceeding 5000 sh all be levied from any person illegally using the card of a disables 
without prejudice to civil liability when necessary. The penalty shall be doubled in case of 
repeated violation.  
   
Article (34)  
The Ministry shall approve stickers for disables and gener alize them to all entities 
supervising their utilities or issuing booklets and publications and prepare programs about such stickers.  
  
Article (35)  
No disabled shall be required to produce any proof of his disability except the card issued by the Ministry. Conditions for obtaining such card shall be determined by a decision of the 
Minister.  
  
Article (36)  
The Ministry shall license non -governmental in stitutions concerned with caring for, 
educating, training and qualifying disables. No natural or artificial person may establish or set up any of the said institutions without a relevant license from the Ministry.   
Federal Law No (29) of 2006  Concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs  15 
 A Cabinet decision shall determine the con ditions, controls and fees for licensing such 
institutions, their obligations and penalties they may receive in case of a violation, and other 
provisions governing their work.  
  
Article (37)  
The Minister shall issue the regulations and decisions necessary for enforcing the provisions of this law.  
  
Article (38)  
Any provision contrary to or inconsistent with the provisions of this law shall be revoked.  
  
Article (39)  
This law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall go into effect from the date o f 
publication.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
Promulgated in the Presidential Palace, Abu Dhabi  
On Rajab 19, 1427 A.H.  
Corresponding to 13/8/2006 G.  