 
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  1 
 Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999   
Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  
 
We, Zayed Bin Sultan Al -Nahyan,                     President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Having taken cognizance of the Constitution, and  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 regarding the jurisdictions of Ministries and powers of 
Ministers, and its amending laws, and  
− Federal Law No. (17) of 1972 regarding Nationality and Passports and its amending 
laws, and  
− Federal Law No. (8) of 1973 regarding the Civil Service in the Federal Government, 
and its amending laws, and  
− Federal Law No. (13) of 1974 regarding Pensions & Retirement Bonuses for Employees and Civil Servants and its amending laws, and  
− Federal Law No. (14) of 1974 regarding the Pensio ns & Retirement Bonuses of the 
Prime Minister, His Deputy & the Ministers and its amending laws, and  
− Federal Law No. (7) of 1976 regarding Establishment of the State Audit Institution, and  
− Federal Law No. (8) of 1980 regarding Organization of Labour Re lations, and  
− Federal Law No. (2) of 1982 regarding Determination of Pensions for Members of the National Federal Council and its amendments, and  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1984 regarding Retirement Pensions and Bonuses for Nationals Employed by Institutions, Establishments, Companies and Banks where 
the Government is a Share -holder, and  
− According to what was submitted by the Minister of Finance and the approval of the  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  2 
 Council of Ministers and the Federal National Council as well as the ratification of 
the Supreme Council of the Federation,  
Promulgated the following Law:  
  
Article (1)  
 The provisions of the attached law regarding Pensions & Social Security shall be put into 
force.  
 
Article (2)  
This law shall replace the aforementioned Federal Laws Nos.: (13 ) of 1974, (14) of 1974, (2) 
of 1983 and (1) of 1984.  
The private sector employers and their national employees, who are not subject to other 
pension and social security laws of the State, must subscribe to the Authority according to 
the provisions of this  Law.  
  
Article (3)  
The Authority shall set up the executive rules and conditions for the benefiting from this 
Law by employers as well as persons working for then- own account and free -lance 
professionals and a decision shall be issued in this regard by th e Minister after the approval 
of the Board of Directors.  
 
Article (3) BIS  
The Authority shall establish the executive rules of applying the provisions of "regulation of 
extending security protection to the nationals of the GCCC outside their countries in anyone 
of the other GCCC" and also establish the regulation of exchange of benefits betwe en the  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  3 
 pension funds operating in the country and this shall be included in a resolution from the 
Cabinet following the presentation of the Minister after obtaining the approval of the Board of Directors.  
 
Article (4)  
Without prejudice to the provisions of  article (20) of the attached Law, the pensions of the 
insured persons, whose services terminated before the enforcement of this law, as well as 
the pensions of those entitled on behalf of them shall be settled according to the pension 
actually collected b y them or the pension due under the provisions of the attached Law 
whichever is bigger.  
  
Article (5)  
The regulations and decisions, issued in implementation of the provisions of the laws stated in article (2) hereof shall continue to be enforced in what d oes not contradict with its 
provisions, pending issuance of the decisions and regulations implementing it . 
  
Article (6)  
The Minister of Finance and Industry shall issue the regulations and decisions necessary for implementation of the provisions of this law.  
 
Article (7)  
Each provision violating or contradicting with the provisions of this law shall be cancelled.  
  
Article (8)  
This law shall be published in the official Gazette and it shall be put into force after two  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  4 
 months from the date of its publishing , but for the private sector, it shall be enforced after six 
months from the date of its publishing.  
 
Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
Promulgated by Us at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi  
Dated: 1st Dul Qa'eda, 1419 Hij ri 
Corresponding to: 16 February, 1999.  
 
PART ONE  
DEFINITIONS  
Article (1)  
In the implementation of this law, the following words and phrases shall bear the meanings 
ascribed to them herein, unless otherwise stated:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates  
Authority  : The General Authority for Pensions and Social Insurance  
Board of Directors  : The Board of Directors of the Authority  
Employer  : a. In the Government Sector:  
The federal government bodies, the public institutions, the 
general establishments, the general companies and the banks 
in which the federal government contributes, in addition to the local government bodies which the government of the 
emirate desires to s ubjugate to this law.  
b. In the Private Sector:  
Every normal or juridical person employs UAE employers 
for a salary of whatever kind.   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  5 
 The Insured  
 : Every UAE national for whom these articles of the law are 
applicable.  
Subscription 
Period  : The duration of service for which the insured person 
deserves a pension or remuneration according the 
conditions and pursuant to the law.  
Pensioner  : Everybody whose service has terminated and deserves a 
pension according to the provisions of the law  
Pensioning off age  : The age of sixty  
Pension  : The amount of money which becomes regularly payable 
by the Authority every month to the pensioner or to the 
pensioner's deserving persons as per the articles of the law 
The deserving 
person  : Every person who deserves a portion in the pension due the death of the insured person or the pensioner.  
The term of service  : Every term of service the insured person spent working and during which he has been subject to the pensions 
system, as well as t he terms he may add together as per 
the provisions of the law.  
Work injury  : The injury caused by an accident during performance of work or caused by it or infected by work related diseases, 
and the death caused by stress or exhaustion of work 
shall be considered work injury whenever the rules and 
requirements of the minister's dec ision are met by an 
agreement with the minister of health, and the injury shall 
be considered work injury when an accident takes place  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  6 
 to the insured person while going to or coming back from 
work.  
Work related 
disease  : The disease which spreads increasingly among people of 
the same occupation or different occupations, as stated in 
table No (1) annexed to Federal Law No (8) of 1980 
referred to herein. The percentage of the disability caused 
by work related disease shall be estimated by the 
concerned medical committee, and the disease shall be 
deemed as an occupational disease if the insured person 
is infected while doing his/her work or within one year 
from the date of leaving work.  
The Injured  : Every injured person suffering a work related injury  
The p atient  : A person who gets sick or has an accident shall not be considered work related injury.  
Total disability  : Every disability which prohibits the insured person from performing any occupation or job whethe r totally or 
permanently to earn a living, and that should confirmed 
by a decision from the concerned medical committee after 
stability of the condition, including complete loss of sight, 
or loss of the two arms or legs or loss of an arm and a leg 
and case s of mental diseases, or chronic and incurable 
diseases which are specified by a decision from the Minister of Health.  
 
Partial Disability  : Every disability wh ich may permanently affect the ability  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  7 
 of the insured person to perform his/her job in his/her 
original occupation or earn a living generally, and the said disability should be caused by a work related injury by a 
decision from the concerned medical commit tee after 
stability of the condition, as stated in table No (2) annexed herein, which explains the degrees of disability 
in cases of organic loss, if the disability is not as stated in 
the table herein, then the percentage of disability of the 
injured pers on to earn a living shall then be estimated by 
the medical committee provided that the percentage of the injury is mentioned in the report of the medical committee referred to. And if the disability does have 
special effect on the ability of the injured pe rson to earn a 
living in his/her original occupation, then the job which 
the injured person does should be mentioned in details 
explaining the mentioned in details explaining the effect 
of that with regard to increasing the degree of disability in 
those ca ses from the percentage referred to in table No 
(2) herein.  
Natural death  : the death which is not caused by work related injuries  
The concerned 
medical Committee  : The medical committee on whose report basis the 
decision of the Minister of Health is is sued  
The Subscription 
Account Salary  : a. As for the government sector:  
The basic salary of the injured Person added to it the monthly  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  8 
 allowances given to him/her as follows:  
Living e xpense allowance, social allowance for children, social 
allowance for UAE nationals and accommodation allowance 
allocated for his/her grade, and the accommodation 
allowance shall be estimated on monthly basis by dividing it 
to the number of the months of y ear, provided that the salary 
of the injured person should not exceed the subscription calculation salary of the Minister.  
b.  As for the prime Minister, and his deputy, the Ministers 
and those in their grades:  
The basis salary added to it housing allowance  and the other 
monthly and annual allowances, and the annual allowances shall be estimated by dividing them into the months of year.  
c. As for the President of the Federal National Council:  
The salary of the subscription calculation for the Minister, and 
member of the federal national council shall receive 
membership reward.  
d.  As for the Private Sector:  
The wage specified by the employment contract, and if the 
wage is less than Dhs 1000 ( one thousand dirhams) monthly, this last limit shall be taken into c
onsideration upon 
application of the rules of this law, and if the salary exceeds 
fifty thousand Dirham Dhs. 50,000 this limit shall be 
considered only.  
Following the approval of the Board of Directors, the minister  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  9 
 may amend the minimum and maximum limit depending on 
the financial situation of the authority.  
The pension account 
salary  : a. In the Government Sector: the average subscription 
account salary for the three final years of the insurance subscription period or the entire subscription period if it  
is less than that.  
b. As for the prime Minister, his deputy, the Ministers and 
those at the same level: the subscription account salary.  
c. As for the President of the Federal National Council: the 
subscription account salary of the minister, the membersh ip 
gratuity for the members of the Federal National Council.  
d. In the Private Sector: the average of the subscription 
account salary for the last five years of the insurance 
subscription period or the entire subscription period if it is 
less.  
 
PART TWO  
SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR THE INSURED PERSONS  
Article (2)  
Contributions for the insured include the following:  
1. The monthly contributions paid by the insured, which are deducted at the rate of 
(5%) from the contribution account salary.  
2. The monthly contributions paid by the employer at the rate of (15%) of the 
contribution account salary for the insured employees thereof. As for the employer 
in the private sector, the government shall bear a rate (2.5%) of its share in  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  10 
 contributions, whic h is paid to the GPSSA in the form of support to encourage the 
employee to hire citizens. The Cabinet may amend or cancel this rate and set all 
conditions and controls related to the government bearing this rate according to 
what the Cabinet deems appropriate.  
3. Additional amounts due because of late payment of contributions . 
  
PART THREE  
CHAPTER ONE CALCULATION OF SECURITY SUBSCRIPTION PERIOD  
Article (3)  
The calculation of the Security subscription period shall include the period of service stated 
in the pension laws, referred to in article (2) of the law of issuance as well as the service 
periods spent by the insured person with an employer who is subject to the provisions of this law as well as all types of leave periods and the added periods. However, f ollowing 
periods must not be included in the calculation of the subscription period:  
1. Periods of suspension from work without pay or absence periods for which the insured person shall be deprived of his salary.  
2. The pervious periods for which the insur ed person was deprived from his salary or 
remuneration by a disciplinary decision or a judicial award.  
3. The periods which cannot be included according to the provisions of this Law.  
  
Article (4)  
The following periods which the insured person requests th eir inclusion shall be added to 
the current period considered in the pension or the bonus:  
1. The former service period in the Government sector.  
2. The former service period in the private departments which apply retirement regulations.   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  11 
 3. The period of m ilitary service.  
4. The former service period with any employer who is subject to the provisions of this Law.  
5. The service period referred to in the foregoing paragraphs (1, 2, 3 and 4), prior to 
acquisition of the nationality of the State.  
6. The former service period in the Development Council or in Kuwait Office.  
7. The former service periods at any entity approved by the Board of Directors.  
  
Article (5)  
To add the terms of service referred to in the previous article, the following condit ions must 
be met:  
1. The insured person must express in writing his /her desire to add the said terms before 
the end of his service, provided that the necessary certificates and documents are 
attached to the application.  
2. The required previous terms to b e added must not have ended because of any reason of 
total deprivation of the pension or reward.  
3. The terms to be added must not be temporary or include daily -paid work or a training 
period prior to appointment.  
4. The insured person must pay his own share and the share of his employer for the period 
to be added according to the subscription account salary on the date of addition in one 
installment. Payment may also be made in monthly installments of not less than one 
quarter of the salary, provided that the duration of payment does not exceed the date 
the insured person reaches the age of sixty. In all cases, full costs for addition must be 
paid before the end of service.  
5. If the service of the insured person ends because of death, the commitment to pay th e 
installments shall end if the amount he has paid reaches 50% of the total payable  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  12 
 amount. If the paid amount is less than 50%, the remaining percentage shall be paid 
from the pensions of his beneficiaries.  
  
Article (6)  
The service period, prior to benef iting from he provisions of this Law in respect of citizens 
employed with local government authorities which the government of the concerned emirate requests them to be subjected to this Law within the period of subscription to this 
security system from th e date of employment up to the date of enjoying the benefits of its 
provisions, provided that said authorities shall bear payment of the total share of 
subscriptions indicated in article (2) of this Law pertaining to the share of the employer and 
the insur ed person according to the salary of the subscription account at the date of 
enjoying the benefits of its provisions. The payment method shall be decided by a decision from the Minister.  
 
Article (6) BIS  
The Cabinet may, based on the recommendation of the  GPSSA Board of Directors, issue a 
resolution by virtue of which it entrusts the Emirates Investment Authority to invest the contributions stipulated in this Law or part thereof, within the limits and in accordance with 
the rules, conditions and controls s pecified by this Resolution.  
 
Article (7)  
If the insured person acquires the nationality of the State during his service with authorities subject to the provisions of this Law, his service period prior to obtaining the nationality shall be included in the pension or bonus account, provided that he shall bear his share and 
that of the employer for this period as regards the subscriptions mentioned in article (2) of  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  13 
 this Law, and the salary of the subscription account at the date of acquiring the nationality.  
  
Article (8)  
Employers who are committed to better end of service bonus systems shall bear the excess 
value of the difference between what they used to bear under said systems and the end of 
service bonus which is calculated according to the provisions o f this Law and also the bonus 
deserved for the difference between the salary of the maximum limit of the subscription of the private sector to this security and the salary for computation of the bonus in their 
systems if it is higher. Such excess shall be calculated for the entire service of the insured 
persons whether including the periods of service prior or subsequent to subscription to the 
Authority and it shall be paid to the Authority within one month from termination of the 
insured persons service in  full and it is to be paid to the insured or entitled persons on 
termination of the service.  
  
CHAPTER TWO  
 RULES OF COMPUTING SUBSCRIPTIONS ACCOUNT   
Article (9)  
Subscriptions shall be payable for the following periods according to the rules and provisions shown against each: - 
1. Periods of foreign secondment without pay or private leaves: The insured person must pay to the Authority his share in the subscriptions and the share of his employer in one payment within one year from the end of the secondment or leave. However, he may pay 
them in installments throughout a period equal to that of the leave or secondment under the 
approval of the Authority's Director.  
2. Private leaves for a spouse accompanying the other:   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  14 
 (a) If the private leave is for accompanying a diplomat, the Government sector shall pay his 
share and that of the insured person.  
(b) If the private leave is for accompanying a person sent on a scholarship, the Government 
sector shall pay his share and that of the insured person.  
(c) If the private leave is for accompanying an insured person employed with the private sector the insured person shall bear his share and that of the employer. However, the 
insu red person shall pay to the Authority the amounts due in one installment within one 
year from the date of expiry of the leave. He, may also pay the amount in installments in a duration equal to the period of the leave.  
3. Periods of academic leaves without  pay: The employer in Government sector shall 
undertake to pay his share in the subscriptions on regular dates, while the insured person shall undertake to pay his share in the manner stated in Paragraph (1). With regard to the 
private sector, the insured person shall bear the two shares in this case.  
4. In -house secondment: The secondee authority, if it pays the salary, shall bear the 
employer's share in the subscriptions and the insured shall pay his share. However, the 
shares shall be paid to the Authority on the regular dates based on the salary of the insured 
person at the seconding organization.  
5. Periods of sick leave: The insured person shall pay his share based on the actual salary 
received by him for it, while the employer shall pay his share acco rding to the full salary 
whether the leave is with or without pay.  
  
Article (10)  
A. The subscriptions paid by the employer in the private sector and those which are deducted from the salaries of the insured persons employed by him during one calendar 
year  shall be computed according to the salaries received by them in January of each year.   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  15 
 B. Employees who join the service of the private sector after January, shall have their 
subscriptions computed according to the salary of the month in which they joined the 
service up to January next and thereafter they shall be treated on the basis shown in the 
foregoing paragraph. The subscriptions shall be computed in full for the month on which the 
service starts, and they are not payable for the part of the month on which the  
service ends.  
C. The subscriptions paid by the employer in Government sector and those deducted from 
the salaries of the insured persons shall be computed according to the salary paid every 
month.  
  
Article (11)  
1. The employer in the private sec tor must submit to the Authority in January of each year 
details of the salaries of his employees for said month together with their monthly subscriptions and he shall monthly furnish the Authority with any changes in the number 
and salaries of his employe es on the forms defined by the Authority and such details must 
comply with the books and records maintained by the employer according to the Labour Law.  
2. If the employer does not submit the details provided for in the foregoing paragraph 
according to the  decided conditions, situations and timeframe according to the payable 
subscriptions shall be computed as per the last statement submitted to the Authority pending calculation of the actual subscriptions.  
3. In case the details are not provided or if those  provided are not in conformity with the 
reality, or if records and documents which must be maintained by the employer according to 
the provisions of this Law are unavailable, the calculation of the subscriptions shall be made 
according to the Authority's decision as per the outcome of its investigations.   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  16 
   
Article (12)  
The private sector employer must register his employees who are subject to the provisions 
of this Law with the Authority within one month maximum from the d ate of their joining the 
service. The employer must furnish the Authority with the names of his employees whose services are terminated within one month at most from the date of service termination.  
  
Article (13)  
Subscriptions are payable at the beginning  of the month following the maturity month. 
However, they can be extended to the fifteenth day of said month. These subscriptions are 
nonrefundable.  
  
Article (14)  
The employer shall undertake to pay his share and that of the insured person in the 
subscrip tions due to the Authority and in case Payment is deferred, he shall be forced to pay 
an additional amount of (0.1%) of the due subscriptions for each day of delay without need 
for warning or notice. The Board of Directors shall determine the cases and con ditions of 
exemption from this additional amount  
  
Article (15)  
The private sector employer who does not deduct subscriptions from all or some of his 
employees, or does not pay subscriptions according to actual salaries shall undertake to pay 
an additional amount of (10%) of the due subscriptions without need for warning or prior 
notice.  
   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  17 
 CHAPTER THREE  
ENTITLEMENT TO OLD AGE, DISABILITY & DEATH PENSION  
Article (16 ) 
The pension shall be payable in the following cases:  
1. End of the service of the insured pe rson because of death or total disability. Such 
disability shall be confirmed by the medical committee.  
2. End of the service of the insured person in the government sector for health unfitness. 
Such unfitness shall be confirmed by the medical committee.  
3. End of the service of the insured person in the private sector due to health reasons which 
shall threaten his life if he continues his job, provided that the decision of the medical 
committee is prior to the date of the service end.  
4. End of the service  of the insured person because of the company dissolution, bankruptcy 
or liquidation, provided that his period of subscription to this insurance is 15 years at 
least.  
5. End of the service of the insured person because he has reached pensioning off age if his 
insurance subscription period is fifteen years at least.  
6. End of the service of the insured person because of termination of service or pensioning off by a disciplinary decision or judicial ruling if his insurance subscription period is 
fifteen years  at least.  
7. End of the service of the insured person because of resignation if his insurance subscription period is twenty years and he has reached fifty five years of age at least.  
8. End of the service of the insured woman, whether she is married, divo rced or a widow, 
due to resignation if she has children under eighteen years of age if the period of her 
subscription to insurance is twenty years.  
9. End of the service of the insured woman if her period of subscription to insurance is  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  18 
 twenty years and sh e has reached fifty years of age or more.  
10. End of the service of the insured person by a federal decree or by a local decree provided 
that the treasury of the concerned Emirate government bears the actual costs incurred as 
a result, and the president sh all issue a resolution on the methods of calculating the said 
costs.  
11. End of the service of the insured person for reasons other than those stated in the 
previous articles if the period of his subscription to insurance is twenty years at least.  
In all cases, the retirement pension shall not be paid to the insured persons whose services have ended by resignation unless they reach fifty years of age, provided that this provision 
applies first to those who reach forty years of age on the date of app lication of this law. This 
age shall then be increased year after year till it reaches fifty.  
The retirement pension shall be calculated in the cases stated in article (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10) on 
the basis of subscription period of fifteen years, or the actu al subscription period, whichever 
is longer. Three considerable years or a period complementary to the age of sixty, whichever 
is less, shall be added to the period of subscription calculated in the insurance in the case 
where the service ends because of d eath or total disability.  
The retirement pension shall also be calculated in the remaining cases on the basic of an actual period of subscription of not less than twenty years.  
In the event that a pensioner pensioned off on retirement due to lack of health  fitness or 
health disability returns to work, the pension assessed for him due to such reason shall be 
cancelled, and the remaining provisions of the law shall apply.  
  
Article (17)  
The insured person may request to buy a considerable term of service to b e added to the 
actual term of service according to the following conditions:   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  19 
 - The insured person must express his desire in writing to buy the said period prior to the 
end of his service.  
- He must have spent a period of twenty  years at least.  
- The perio d to be bought must not exceed five years for the insured man or ten years for the 
insured woman.  
In all cases, the insured person shall bear his share and the employer's shares for the period 
to be bought, as per the subscription account salary on the dat e of applying for purchase, 
provided that payment is made in one or more installment, and that the period of installment does not exceed the date when the insured person reaches sixty years of age.  
In all cases, the full costs of purchase must be paid befo re the end of service.  In the event 
that the insured person dies, the installments shall continue to be collected from the pensions of his beneficiaries.  
  
Article (18)  
If a court decision is issued considering the insured person missing, the persons entit led on 
behalf of him shall be paid a temporary monthly pension equal to their pension entitlement 
on assumption that his death occurred during the service. If it is discovered thereafter that 
the missing insured person is alive, payment of the pension to b eneficiaries shall be 
suspended and his status shall be adjusted in the light of the result of legal investigations. If 
it is demonstrated that the insured person's situation is unlawful, the Authority shall have 
the right to recourse to him for the amount s previously paid. If his situation is proved to be 
sound, a clearance shall be made between his dues and the amounts paid to the persons entitled on behalf of him.  
However, if his dues exceed the amount paid to them, the difference shall be paid to him.  
   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  20 
 Article (19)  
If the insured service is terminated due to death or total disability as a result of a 
work -related accident in both cases, the pension shall be settled on assumption that the 
period of his subscription reached thirty -five years.  
  
Article (20) 
The pension shall be computed on monthly basis at the rate of 60% of the pension account 
salary for the subscription periods calculated in the security system which amounts to 
fifteen years and it shall be increased by (2%) for every year exceeding said  period up to a 
maximum of 100% of the pension account salary.  
If the service period exceeds thirty -five years, the insured person shall be granted bonus for 
the excess period equal to the salary of three months for each year to be calculated as per 
the sa lary of the pension account  
It is to be taken in consideration with regard to the insured person in the private sector, that the last salary of the pension account must not be more or less than 20% of the average 
salary of the subscription account in the p receding four years or the actual subscription 
period, if it is less.  
  
Article (21)  
Without violating the provisions of article No (19) of this Law, (10%) shall be deducted from the entitlement of the insured person to whom either of clauses (6 or 11) of article (16) of 
this law shall be applied, provided that his term of service has not reached twenty five years.  
  
Article (22)  
In the computation of the subscription period, the part of the month shall be considered one  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  21 
 whole month.  
  
Article (23)  
In the Government sector, the pension of the insured person who is in Grade Four of the 
Third Link and above or its equivalent, must not be less than Dhs. 3,750 (three thousand 
seven hundred fifty Dirhams) monthly nor shall the retirement pens ion of the insured 
person in other grades or their equivalent be less than Dhs. 2,500 (two thousand five hundred Dirhams) monthly.  
  
Article (24)  
The minimum share of those entitled on behalf of the insured person shall be as follows:  
800 Dirahms for the w idow or entitled husband.  
600 Dirhams for each parent.  
400 Dirhams for each one of the other entitled persons.  
If the share of any entitled person is less than the minimum, his share shall be computed 
according to the pension account salary, provided that the total of the shares shall not 
exceed this salary. In case of refunding the pension of to one of the entitled persons to a 
third party, the refund shall be made according to his share prior to increasing it to the 
minimum.  
  
CHAPTER FOUR  
 ENTITLED PERSO NS & CONDITIONS OF THEIR ENTITLEMENT   
Article (25)  
The insured person's right to pension shall commence on the day following termination of 
his service and it shall be suspended on his death unless there are other entitled persons, in  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  22 
 which case the right to the pension shall be transferred according to the provisions of this 
Law.  
However, the right of the persons entitled on behalf of the insured person or pensioner to 
the pension shall commence at the beginning of the month following the date of death.  
  
Article (26)  
Without prejudice to the provisions of the following Articles, the right to pension shall be 
transferred after the death of the insured person or pensioner to the persons mentioned in 
Schedule (1) which is attached herewith.  
  
Article (27)  
If the wife dies or marries on or after the death of the insured person or pensioner, her share 
shall be transferred on equal basis to her sons and daughters from him who are entitled to 
pension. However, if none of them is existing, her share shall be transferred, on equal basis, 
to the widows of the insured person or pensioner who are existing at the time of her death 
and if one of them is not existing, her share shall be transferred to the Authority.  
  
Article (28)  
If the sons and daughters of the son lose their father to death while his father is still alive and 
they have no pension on behalf of their father, the share of their father shall be transferred 
to them on assumption that he is alive.  
If the sons and daughters of the son lose their father to death after becoming entitled to 
pension on behalf of his father, the share of their father in the pension shall be transferred to 
them.  
However, in both foregoing cases, the provisions of suspension of payment of the p ension  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  23 
 to the entitled sons and daughters shall be applied  
  
Article (29)  
The son's pension shall cease when he reaches the age of twenty one and, nonetheless, the 
pension shall continue to be paid to him after reaching this age in the following cases: - 
1. If he is unable to earn, until such disability vanishes.  
However, such disability must be confirmed by a report from the competent medical board, 
provided that the disability shall ascertained once every two years unless the said board 
decides impossibili ty of his cure.  
2. If he is a student payment shall continue up to the date of his joining work or his 
practicing of a profession or up to the age of twenty eight whichever is nearest.  
Payment of pension for a student who reaches the age of twenty eight, s hall be made during 
he academic year and it shall continue up to the end of said year.  
  
 
Article (30)  
The widow's pension shall cease at her marriage and the pension of the daughter or sister shall cease at her marriage or when she joins work or practices  a profession. However, the 
pension shall be resumed for the daughter or sister if she is divorced or becomes a widow and has no salary or other pension or if she becomes jobless.  
  
Article (31)  
If the daughter, sister or mother becomes a widow and if the son or brother becomes unable 
to earn after the death of the pensioner and they have no other salary or pension, every one 
of them shall be entitled to such portion of the pension on assumption of it being deserved  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  24 
 at the date of the pensioner's death, pro vided that it shall not prejudice the rights of the 
other persons who are entitled to pension. However, in the event of suspension or 
withholding of pension from any one of them it shall not be refunded to any one else.  
  
Article (32)  
The father shall be e ntitled to a share in his dead son's pension if they were dependent on 
him when he was alive and this shall be verified according to the rules to be set out by the 
Authority. However, the entitlement shall be according to the conditions and within the 
limits stated in Articles (29) and (30) of this Law.  
  
Article (33)  
The brothers and sisters shall be entitled to a share in the dead person's pension so long as 
they were dependent on it in  their living when he was alive and this must be proved 
according to the rules set out by the Authority.  
However, the entitlement shall be as per and within the limits stated in Articles (29) and (30) 
of this Law.  
  
Article (34)  
The mother shall be entitle d to a share in her dead son's pension if she is a widow or 
divorced or her husband had been dependent on her dead son when he was alive and she has no salary or pension.  
  
Article (35)  
The pensioner may not combine two pensions from the Authority, and in case he deserves 
two pensions, he shall be paid the one that is more in value. He may not either combine his  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  25 
 pension and any salary he receives regularly from any other body in the State. If the salary is 
bigger than the pension, the payment of the pension  shall be suspended until his 
subsequent service ends, but if the salary is less, the difference shall be paid to him, and the 
pension shall be re -paid upon the end of his service . 
  
Article (36)  
By way of exception from the provisions prohibiting the comb ination of two pensions, or 
the pension and the salary, combination may be permitted in following cases:  
1. The cases of combining two pensions, or combining the pension and the salary, those 
are previous to application of the provisions of this law.  
2. If the total sum of the two pensions or the pension and the salary received by the 
pensioner does not exceed nine thousand  Dirhams, otherwise, his right shall be 
restricted within the permitted limits.  
3. If the pensioner has spent more than twenty five year s or more in the government 
service for which he deserves a pension, he may combine this pension and any salary 
regularly received from any body in the state whatever their collective amount may be, 
with the exception of the two cases stated in clauses 6 and 11 of article (16) of this law, 
to which the provision stated in clause (2) hereof shall be applied.  
If the pension is payable to the widow of the pensioner, she shall have the right to combine 
her salary, or her pension and the pension she deserves for  her husband.  
  
Article (37)  
1. In case of withholding the pension wholly or partially from one of the pensioner's children for any reason whatever, the withheld sum shall go to the rest of the sons as per 
their shares before raising them to the minimum limit for beneficiaries stated in Article  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  26 
 (24) of this law. If the reason for withholding ceases to exist, the pension of the said sons 
shall be reduced by the value of the sum they have received because of withholding.  
2. In the absence of other beneficiari es, the unpaid pension of the children shall go to the 
pensioner's widow, provided in such case that the portion does not exceed three fourths 
of the pension. If there is more than one widow, the whole pension shall be distributed 
among them equally.  
  
PAR T FOUR  
END OF SERVICE BONUS  
Article (38)  
The insured person who is not entitled to a pension at the end of his service according to the 
foregoing provisions, shall be granted a bonus as per the provisions of the following Articles.  
  
Article (39)  
The insured person shall be entitled to a bonus at the rate of one -and -a-half month's salary 
for every one of his first five years of subscription provided that his subscription period shall not be less than one year, then at the rate of two months salary for every one of the 
following five years of subscription and thereafter at the rate of three months' salary for 
every year in excess of that.  
  
Article (40)  
In the computation of the period of subscription to the security system the part of the month 
shall be considered one full month.  
   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  27 
 Article (41)  
The computation of the bonus shall be made according to the salary of the pension account  
With regard to the insured person in public sector it is to be taken in consideration that the 
last salary must not be more or less than 20% of the average salary of the subscription 
account in the previous four years or the actual subscription period if it is less.  
  
Article (42)  
In case of death of the insured person, the bonus due to him for his service period shall be 
paid to the persons entitled on behalf of him according to the provisions defined for pension 
in this law and as per the distribution inc luded therein and if no entitled persons are 
available, it shall be distributed according to the inheritance provisions of the Islamic Law 
(Sharia).  
  
PART FIVE  
PENSIONS OF THE PRIME MINISTER, HIS DEPUTY & THE MINISTERS  
Article (43)  
The prime Minister,  his deputy and the ministers shall be entitled, at the end of the service in 
the ministerial post, to a monthly pension according to the provisions of the following Articles.  
  
Article (44)  
If the Prime Minister, his deputy or the minister remains in the ministerial post for two years, 
the monthly retirement pension due shall be computed on assumption that his service 
period reached thirty five years provided that the government treasury shall bear the  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  28 
 subscription difference between the actual service per iod and the assumed one.  
  
Article (45)  
If a former minister is appointed in any post governed by the provisions of this Law, he shall 
be permitted to combine his salary for said post according to which the retirement pension 
shall be calculated, with the pension due to him.  
  
Article (46)  
Without prejudice to the provisions stated in this Part, the provisions of this Law shall apply 
with regard to the Prime Minster, his deputy and the ministers.  
 
PART SIX  
PENSIONS OF MEMBERS OF THE FEDERAL NATIONAL COUNCIL  
Article (47)  
The Chairman and the two deputies of the Chairman as well as the two controllers and 
members of the Federal National Council shall be entitled at the end of their membership 
term in the Council to a monthly pension according to the provisio ns of the following 
Articles.  
  
Article (48)  
If the Chairman, the two deputies, the two controllers or the member of the Federal National Council spend in the membership a complete legislative Chapter, the insured person shall be 
entitled to a pension to b e computed on assumption that the insured person's membership 
period reached thirty five years provided that the government treasury shall bear the  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  29 
 subscription difference between the actual service period and the assumed one.  
  
Article (49)  
If the members hip is terminated due to health unfitness or death, the insured person or 
those entitled on behalf of him, as the case may be, shall be entitled to a pension equal to 
the membership bonus.  
  
Article (50)  
It is permissible for the president, his deputies, the observer and the member of the Federal 
National Council to combine the pension due to them as per the provisions of this law and 
any other pension paid to them by any other body in the state other than the authority. They 
may also combine their membership reward and any salary paid by anybody and the 
pension due under the provisions of this law . 
  
Article (51)  
The salary of the subscription account determined for each of the Chairman and the two 
chairman deputies as well as the controllers and members of the Federal National Council, 
shall be taken as basis for computation of the pension. However, the percentage provided 
for in article (2) of this Law shall be deducted from said salary.  
  
Article (52)  
The provisions of this  Part shall apply to the former Chairman and former members of the 
federal National Council.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  30 
 PART SEVEN  
LAPSE OR SUSPENSION OF THE RIGHT TO PENSION OR BONUS  
Article (54)  
The insured person or pensioner must not be deprived of the pension or bonus except by a 
disciplinary decision and to an extent not exceeding one quarter of the pension or bonus.  
No judgment may be issued depriving the pensioner according to the foregoing Article except for acts committed by him prior to termination of his service.  
No ded uction may be made or sequestration levied on amounts due to be made, in 
application of the provisions of this Law, to the owner of the pension or bonus or to the persons entitled on behalf of him except in payment of alimony adjudicated by a court or in 
repayment of what may be owed to the government by the insured person for a reason 
pertaining to the performance of his duties or in recovery of what was unlawfully paid to him.  
However, what is deducted in said cases must not exceed one quarter of the pens ion and in 
case of competition priority shall be given to alimony debt.  
  
Article (55)  
On the death of the insured person or pensioner who is awarded a disciplinary judgment 
depriving him of part of his pension, the persons entitled on behalf of him shall be paid their 
full shares from the complete pension provided for in this Law.  
  
Article (56)  
The insured person or pensioner who loses the nationality of the State or from whom it is 
withdrawn, shall be deprived of the pension due to him and on his death, the persons 
entitled on behalf of him shall be paid their full shares if they have the nationality of the  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  31 
 State.  
If the nationality of the State is withdrawn from the entitled persons or if they were 
originally not in possession thereof, they shall be paid  half their shares.  
  
Article (57)  
Every pension or bonus whose owner or the person entitled on behalf of him fail to come forward to collect it, may not be claimed after expiry of ten years from the date of 
entitlement or from the date of last collection of the pension. However, the aforementioned 
date shall not apply when there is any reason preventing the entitled person from claiming his right and such reason is acceptable to the Director General of the Authority.  
  
 
PART EIGHT  
PUNISHMENTS  
Article (58)  
Without prejudice to any severer punishment provided for by any other law, the punishments provided for under the following Articles shall be applied to the offenses stated 
therein.  
  
Article (59)  
Every person who intentionally provides incorrect details o r who deliberately refrains from 
furnishing the details provided for in this Law or in its executing decisions or regulations with intention to unlawfully obtain funds from the Authority, shall be punished with 
imprisonment and a fine not exceeding five th ousand Dirhams or with either one of said 
punishments.   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  32 
 Furthermore every person who, by furnishing incorrect details, intends to avoid payment of 
the Authority's dues in full, shall be punished with the same punishment  
In all cases, the court shall pass a sentence ordering repayment of all amounts unlawfully 
collected, or recovery of the amounts which are due to the Authority.  
  
Article (60)  
Every employer in the private sector who is subject to the provisions of this Law shall be 
punished with a fine of five thousand Dirhams for every employee for whom he fails to 
make subscription to the Authority. Moreover every employer who forces his employees to 
bear a share in expenses unprovided for in this Law, shall be punished with the same 
punishment and the cour t shall, of its own accord, force the violating employer to pay to the 
employees the value of the security expenses borne by them.  
  
Article (61)  
All fines and amounts adjudicated for violation of the provisions of this Law shall be 
property of the Authori ty. 
 
Article (61) BIS  
The authority personnel designated by the resolution of the Minister o f Justice by agreement 
with the Minister shall have the capacity of judicial officers with regard to the crimes taking place within the sphere of their competence and relating to their duties.  
  
  
  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  33 
 PART NINE  
GENERAL PROVISIONS  
Article (62)  
The Council of Ministers shall have the right to grant exceptional pensions or increments in 
pensions or exceptional bonuses to the insured persons whose services terminate for any 
reason or to the pensioners or persons entitled on behalf of them.  
The Council of Ministers shall also have the right to grant exceptional pensions or bonuses 
to citizens other than those mentioned in the foregoing Article who extended great services 
to the country, or to the families of persons who die in accidents considered as general 
catastroph es. 
The provisions of this Law shall apply to said exceptional pensions and bonuses without prejudice to any special provisions decided by the Council of Ministers.  
The Government shall bear the value of the exceptional pensions.  
  
Article (63)  
Subject to the provisions of article (36) of this law, if the pensioner is returned to service by any employer subject to the provisions of this law, the term of his pervious service may be 
added to the new service and he shall be treated at the end of the  new service on the basis of 
the two terms together.  The Minister shall issue the resolutions regulating the method of 
calculating the costs for the addition of this term.  
  
Article (64)  
On the death of the pensioner an amount equal to the pension due to him for the month of 
his death and the three months following it shall be paid and such payment shall be made in 
one installment to the persons supported by him at the time of his death and said amount  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  34 
 shall be considered a gratuity which may not be recover ed or sequestrated in repayment of 
any debt and this gratuity shall be exempted from all types of taxes and charges.  
  
Article (65)  
If the insured person's service terminated by reason of natural death, his successors shall be 
paid, in addition to the mont hly pension due under the provisions of this Law, a death 
compensation in one payment amounting to sixty thousand Dirhams to be distributed among them according to the legacy provisions of the Islamic Law (Sharia).  
  
Article (66)  
If the insured person dies  of a work injury, his successors shall be entitled to a compensation 
amounting to seventy five thousand Dirhams to be distributed among them according to the provisions of Islamic Law (Sharia) and the insured person shall also be entitled to such 
compensa tion if the work injury results in total disability. However, if the injury causes 
partial disability the inured insured person shall be entitled to a compensation to be 
estimated pro rata to the percentage of disability inflicted on him multiplied by the 
compensation value.  
The insured person shall be deprived of the injury compensation in the following cases: - 
1. If the insured person deliberately injures himself.  
2. If the injury is a result of grave misbehaviour intended by the injured person. The follo wing shall be considered as grave misbehaviour:  
(a) Every act committed by the injured person under the influence of liquor, drugs and mind 
affecting substances.  
(b) Every intentional violation of the safety instructions displayed at obvious locations in t he 
work place.   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  35 
 However, neither of the cases mentioned in (1) and (2) shall be complied with unless proved 
by the investigation to be carried out in this respect by the competent authorities.  
  
Article (67)  
1. The provisions of article (66) of this Law shall not jeopardize the right of the insured 
person or his successors in claiming his full right to compensation before third parties.  
2. If the injury has occurred due to an error, negligence or work accident by the employer, the insured person or his succe ssors shall have the right to recourse to the employer for full 
compensation.  
  
Article (68)  
In case of suspension or termination of pension, the pension due for the month in which the reason for suspension or termination occurred shall be paid according t o one full month and 
in the event of returning the pension to an entitled person or returning it to entitled persons other than him, the pension shall be returned as of the beginning of the month following the 
date of the entitlement incident.  
  
Article (69)  
The insured persons in whose respect Federal decrees are issued ordering their treatment in 
their posts with the treatment of ministers and persons of the like, shall be subject to the 
provisions of Part Five of this Law.  
  
Article (70)  
Every employer shall maintain books and records and shall submit to the Authority the lists, 
details and forms required for the implementation of this Law as per the conditions,  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  36 
 situations and dates defined by the Board of Directors.  
  
Article (71)  
Every employe r shall establish for every insured person a special file for retirement wherein 
he shall deposit the documents to be defined by the decision referred to in article (70) of 
this Law.  
  
Article (72)  
The employer in the private sector must pay to the Authority the end of service bonus which 
is due to the national citizens employed by him according to the laws and regulations 
organizing their work contracts, for those who wish to include their service periods from the 
date of their employment up to the date of  benefiting from the provisions of this Law under 
the account of the annexation costs without prejudice to their right in continuing work and being entitled to the bonus for this period at the end of the actual service of those who 
request annexation.  
  
Article (73)  
the age of the insured person must not be less than eighteen years and must not exceed 
sixty years and he must be medically fit for work at the time of appointment as per a medical 
report from the medical entity approved by the Authority and the  employer must submit 
said report when subscribing for him in the Authority.  
  
Article (74)  
The Authority shall have the right to deduct the amounts which might have been unlawfully paid to the entitled person whose share was suspended or terminated, from the frozen dues  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  37 
 of all the rest of entitled persons as a result of the suspension or termination as of the date of 
knowing the incident which caused it and it shall be made in the percentage of every one's entitlement as compared to the shares of the other s. 
  
Article (75)  
The dissolution, liquidation, shutting down, bankruptcy or merger of any authority which is subject to security or its transference by inheritance will, donation, sale, assignment or by 
any other action, shall not prevent payment of all d ues of the Authority.  
The successor shall be jointly responsible with the former employers for execution of all 
liabilities due on them to the Authority.  
However, in case of transference of ownership of the authority which is subject to security by inherit ance or will, the joint responsibility of the successors or legatees shall be within 
their share of the legacy.  
  
Article (76)  
The retirement pensions and bonuses paid under this Law shall be exempted from all taxes and charges.  
  
Article (77)  
The amounts paid to the Authority under the provisions of this Law shall have right of preference over all funds of the debtor and they shall have priority over all debts after the 
legal expenses and alimony debt. The authority shall have the right to collect them 
according to the Governmental Funds Collection Regulations in force.  
However, all or part of said funds may be paid in installments according to the conditions to 
be determined by the Board of Directors.   
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  38 
   
Article (78)  
The cases lodged by the Auth ority, the insured persons or those entitled on behalf of them 
under the provisions of this Law, shall be exempted from the legal charges at all degrees of 
litigation and they shall be looked into summarily. In all cases, court shall have the right to 
orde r summary execution without bail and in the event of rejecting the case, it shall have the 
right to order the claimant to pay all or part of the expenses.  
  
Article (79)  
The periods provided for in this Law shall be calculated as per the Gregorian calendar . 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  39 
 Schedule No. (1) 
Share entitlements in the 
pension  
 Persons entitled to shares in the pension  
Widow or 
widows or 
entitled 
husband  
 Sons  
 Parents  
 Brothers  
 
1 
 widow or widows 
or entitled 
husband and one 
son or more, as 
well as father or 
mother or both 
further to one 
brother or more.  
 3/8 
 3/8 
 1/8 
 1/8 
 
2 
 widow or widows 
or entitled 
husband and one 
son or more as 
well as father or 
mother or both.  
 3/8 
 4/8 
 1/8 
 - 
 
3 
 widow or widows 
or entitled 3/8 
 4/8 
 — 
 1/8 
  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  40 
 husband and one 
son or more.  
 
4 
 widow or widows 
or entitled 
husband and one 
son or more.  
 1/2 
 - 
 1/4 
 1/4 
 
5 
 widow or widows 
or entitled 
husband as well as 
one son or more.  
 3/8 
 5/8 
 - 
 - 
 
6 
 widow or widows 
or entitled 
husband as well as 
father or mother or 
both.  
 1/2 
 - 
 1/2 
 - 
 
7 
 widow or widows 
or entitled 
husband and one 
brother or more.  
 1/2 
 - 
 - 
 1/2 
 
8 widow or widows 3/4 - - -  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  41 
  or entitled 
husband.  
     
9 
 one son or more 
and a father or 
mother or both as 
well as one 
brother or more.  
 - 
 6/8 
 1/8 
 1/8 
 
10 
 one son or more 
and a father or 
mother or both.  
 - 
 3/4 
 1/4 
 - 
 
11 
 one son or more 
and one brother or 
more  
 - 
 3/4 
 - 
 1/4 
 
12 
 more than one son  
 - 
 Whole 
pension  
 - 
 - 
 
13 
 one son  
 - 
 3/4 
 - 
 - 
 
14 
 father or mother or 
both and one 
brother or more.  - 
 - 
 1/2 
 1/2 
  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  42 
  
15 
 father or mother or 
both  
 - 
 - 
 3/4 
 - 
 
16 
 one brother or 
more  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1/2 
 
1. The term son or brother in this schedule includes male and female.  
2. If more than one person share the same portion of pension, it shall be distributed among 
them on equal basis.  
3. The husband shall not be entitled to a share in his wife's pension unless  at the time of the 
death of his wife he suffers from a health deficiency preventing him from earning and such 
deficiency must be confirmed by a decision from the Medical Board and said deficiency shall 
be checked once every two years unless the Medical Board decides impossibility of his 
recovery.  
4. In case of death of one of the parents his share shall be transferred to the other and in case 
of their death, their share shall be transferred to the sons of the pensioner.  
5. In case of suspension of a brothe r's pension, his share shall be transferred to the rest of his 
brothers and in the event of non -existence of any - one of them, their share shall be 
transferred to the pensioner's children.  
6. In the event of suspension of the brother's pension and non -exis tence of entitled persons 
other than the parents, the share of the brothers shall be transferred to the parents in a ratio not exceeding the share fixed for the parents in the case No. (15) i.e. 3/4.  
7. In case of suspension of the parents pension and n on-existence of entitled persons other 
than the brothers, the parents share shall be transferred to the brothers in a ratio not  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  43 
 exceeding the share fixed for them in the case No. (16) i.e. 1/2.  
8. In the event of suspension of the brothers pension and non -existence of entitled persons 
other than the widow, their share shall be transferred to the widow in a ratio not exceeding 
the share fixed for her in the case No. (8) i.e. 3/4.  
9. In case of suspension of the share of the parents and non- existence of entit led persons 
other than the widow, their share shall be transferred to the widow in a ratio not exceeding 
the share fixed for her in the case No. (8) i.e. 3/4.  
10. The share which is due to any single individual on behalf of the pensioner must not exceed th ree quarters of the pension.  
11. In die event of cessation of die cause of suspension of all or part of the pension, the shares shall return to their former state.  
12. The share which is not assigned to any one shall be the property of the Fund.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  44 
 Schedule  No. (2) Estimation of Disability Percentage in Cases of Limb Loss  
Serial No.  
 Ensuing Disability  
 Percentage of Disability  
 
1 
 Amputation of right arm 
up to the shoulder.  
 80%  
 
2 
 Amputation of right arm 
above the elbow  
 75%  
 
3 
 Amputati on of right aim 
under the elbow  
 65%  
 
4 
 Amputation of left arm up 
to the shoulder  
 70%  
 
5 
 Amputation of left arm 
above the elbow  
 65%  
 
6 
 Amputation of left arm 
under the elbow  
 55%  
 
7 
 Amputation of leg above 
knee  
 65%  
  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  45 
 8 
 Amputation of leg below 
knee  
 55%  
 
9 
 Complete deafness  
 55%  
 
10 
 Loss of one eye  
 35%  
 
Left  
 Right  
 
11 
 Amputation of 
thumb  
 25%  
 30%  
 
Amputation of 
thumb end falanx  
 15%  
 18%  
 
Amputation of 
index finger  
 10%  
 12%  
 
12 
 Amputation of 
index finger end 
falanx.  
 5% 
 6% 
 
Amputation of 
end and middle 
falanxes of index 8% 
 10%  
  
Federal Law No. (7) OF 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law  46 
 finger.  
 
Amputation of 
middle finger.  
 8% 
 10%  
 
13 
 Amputation of 
middle finger end 
falanx.  
 4% 
 5% 
 
Amputation of 
middle and end 
falanx.  
 6% 
 8% 
 
Amputation of a 
finger other than 
index, thump and 
middle.  
 5% 
 6% 
 
 
 