 
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  1 
 Federal Law No . (3) of 2016  
on Child Rights Law (Wadeema) 
 
We, Khalifa bin Zayed Al -Nahyan,  President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Having reviewed:  
− The Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972  on Competences of Ministries and Powers of Ministers, as 
amended;  
− Federal Law No. (11) of 1972 on Compulsory Education;  
− Federal Law No. (17) of 1972 on Nationality and Passports, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (9) of 1976 on Delinquent and Homeless Juveniles;  
− Federal Law No. (8) of 1980 Regulating Labor Relations, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1983 on Nurseries;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 Promulgating Civil Transactions Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 1987 Promulgating the Penal Code, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (35) of 1992 Promulgating the Penal Procedures Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (43) of 1992 Regulating Penal Institutions;  
− Federal Law No. (14) of 1995 Combating Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, 
as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (21) of 1995 on Traffic, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 1996 on the Jurisdiction of Shari'a Courts in Examining Some Crimes;  
− Federal Law No. (2) of 2001 on Social Security;  
− Federal Law No. (28) of 2001 Establishing Emirates Authority For Standardization and 
Metrology, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (7) of 2002 on Copyrights and Neighboring Rights, as amended;   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  2 
 − Federal Law No. (1) of 2003 Establishing Mother and Child Supreme Council;  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 2003 Regulating the Telecommunication Sector, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (28) of 2005 on Personal Status;  
− Federal Law No. (19) of 2006 on the Rights of the Disabled, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (51) of 2006 Combating Human Trafficking Crimes, as amended;  
−  Federal Decree -Law No. (11) of 2008 on Human Resources in Federal Government, as 
amended;  
− Federal Law No. (15) of 2009 Combating Tobacco;  
− Federal Law No. (18) of 2009 on Registration of Births and Deaths;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 2012 on the Custody of Children of Unknown Parentage;  
−  Federal Decree- Law No. (5) of 2012 Combating Cyber Crimes;  
−  Federal Decree -Law No. (5) of 2013 on Weapons, Ammunitions, Explosives and Military 
Equipment; and  
− In consideration of the proposal of the Minister of Social Affairs, approval of the Cabinet 
and the Federal National Council, and ratification of the Federal Supreme Council,  
Hereby enact the following Law:  
 
Chapter One   
General Provisions   
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In implementation of the provisions of this Law, the following words and expressions shall 
bear the meanings assigned thereto herein respectively, unless the context otherwise 
indicates:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Ministry  : Ministry of Social Affairs.  
Minister  : Minister of Social Affairs.   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  3 
 Competent 
authorities  : Federal authorities concerned with child affairs.  
Concerned bodies  : Local authorities concerned with child affairs.  
Child  : Each and every human being born alive and below 18 years of age.  
Custodian  : 
The person legally in charge of the child or who is entrusted with the 
child's custody.  
Foster family  : The alternative family entrusted with the custody and care of the 
child.  
Child 
protection 
specialist  : The person licenses and assigned by the competent authority or the 
concerned bodies, as the case may be, to preserve the child's rights 
and protect him within his respective competence, as mentioned in 
this Law.  
Child abuse  : Each and every act or omission that would harm the child in a 
manner that prevents his upbringing and growth in a proper safe and 
healthy manner.  
Child neglect  : 
Failure of parents or custodians to take the measures necessary for preserving the child's life and physical, psychological, mental and 
moral wellness from danger and protecting his various rights.  
Violence 
against child  : The deliberate use of force against any child by any individual or 
community that inflicts actual harm to the child's health or growth or 
life.  
Child's best interest  : Is making the child's interest above any consideration and of priority 
and preference in all conditions, regardless of the interests of the 
other parties.  
Child pornography  : Production, display, publication, acquisition or exchange of a photo, film or drawing via a means of communication, social media, or any other means in which the child appears in an actual and real or 
fictional or simulated disgraceful situation in the sexual act or show.   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  4 
 Article (2) 
The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall:  
1. Preserve the child's right to life, survival and growth and provide all the opportunities 
necessary to facilitate that and to enjoy a free, safe and developed life;  
2. Protect the child from all forms of neglect, exploitation and maltreatment in addition to 
any physical and psychological violence exceeding the legally and legitimately accepted 
as a right of the parents and the like in disciplining their children;  
3. Raise the child to adhere to his Islamic faith, take pride in his nationality, and respect the 
culture of brotherhood of humanity;  
4. Protect the child's best interests;  
5. Educating the child about his rights, obligations and duties in a society governed by the principles of justice, equality, tolerance and moderation;  
6. Raise the child to have a sense of morality and particularly respect his parents and his 
family and social environment; and  
7. Spread the culture of child rights at the widest scale possible utilizing the proper means;  
8. Engage the child in the social fields of life in accordance with his age and maturity and 
developed abilities so that he acquires the traits of love of work, initiation, Legitimate earning, and self -reliance.  
  
Article (3) 
This Law shall ensure granting the child all the rights determined thereunder and under other legislation in force in the State and protecting him without discrimination due to his 
race, gender, country, religion, social status or disability.  
  
Article (4) 
1. The natural family shall be the best environment to raise a child which existence, 
maintenance and protection is ensured by the State in order to achieve the child's rights 
and best interests. When necessary such family shall be replaced by an alternative 
family.   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  5 
 2. Child protection and best interests shall have priority in all decisions and procedures 
taken relevant to him. The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall attempt to 
achieve that through taking the necessary procedures, including:  
a. Ensuring fulfillment of the child's moral, psychological and physical needs in 
accordance with his age, health and family environment, particularly his right to 
guardianship;  
b. Giving the child the priority of protection, care, relief and guidance in emergencies, 
disasters and armed conflicts and from any crime committed against him;  
c. Protecting the child from psychological harm in all phases of collection of evidence, 
investigation and trial, whether he is a litigant or witness.  
  
Article (5) 
The child's privacy shall be respected in accordance with the public order and morals 
together with taking into account the rights and responsibilities the legal custodian.  
  
Article (6) 
The responsible concerned bodies shall implement the policies and programs developed by the competent authorities in all fields relevant to the child.  
  
Chapter Two   
Basic Rights   
Article (7) 
1. The child shall have the right to life and safety.  
2. The State shall ensure the child's growth, development and protection in accordance 
with the Law.  
  
Article (8) 
The child shall be entitled, since his birth, to have a name not involving contempt or 
prejudice to his dignity or contradicting with the religious beliefs and customs.   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  6 
  Article (9) 
The child shall be immediately registered in the birth register immediately after his birth in 
accordance with the legal system determined in this regard.  
  
Article (10) 
The child shall have a nationality in accordance with the provisions of the laws in force in the State.  
  
Article (11) 
1. The child shall be entitled to be traced back to his legal parents in accordance with the laws in force in the State.  
2. The child's parents or legal guardians shall extract the papers that prove the child's birth, nationality in addition to all of the other identification papers in accordance with the laws in force in the State.  
  
Article (12) 
1. The child shall be entitled to expr ess his opinions freely pursuant to his age and maturity 
in consistency with the public order and morals and the laws in force in the State.  
2. The child shall be provided with the opportunity necessary to express his opinion with 
respect to the measures taken in his regard in accordance with the laws in force.  
  
Article (13) 
The child may not be exposed to any arbitrary intervention or illegal procedure in his life, 
family, home or correspondence. In addition, neither the child's honor nor reputation may 
be prejudiced. The State shall ensure child protection from all child pornography in 
accordance with the legislation in force.  
  
Article (14) 
The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall:   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  7 
  
1. Prohibit employment of children prior to reaching 15 years of age; and  
2. Prohibit the economic exploitation and recruitment in any works that expose children to danger, whether by virtue of their nature or for the circumstance of performance thereof.  
The Executive Regulations of the Law and the Labor Law regulate the conditions and bases 
of child employment.  
  
Chapter Three   
Family Rights   
Article (15) 
1. The child's parents and the like and custodians shall provide him with the requirements of family safety with the atmosphere of a family with strong and close relations.  
2. The child's custodian shall be entrusted with the responsibilities and duties vested in him 
with respect to educating, protecting, guiding and upbringing the child in the best way.  
  
Article (16) 
Subject to the laws in force, the child shall be entitled to be introduced to his natural family 
and parents and receive their care and to have personal relations and direct contact with 
both of them.  
  
Article (17) 
The child shall be entitled to custody, feeding, alimony and protecting himself, body, religion and property in accordance with the laws in force in the state.  
  
Chapter Four  
Health Rights   
Article (18) 
The child shall be entitled to receive health services in accordance with the laws and  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  8 
 regulations of health care in force in the State.  
  
Article (19) 
The State shall develop it capabilities in the field of protective, therapeutic and psychological 
health care and health guidance relevant to child health, nutrition and protection.  
  
Article (20) 
The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall provide health care to mothers 
before and after giving birth in accordance with the legislation in force.  
In addition, the competent authorities and concerned bodies shall take the possible measures to:  
1. Protect the child from the risks and harms of environmental pollution and combat the 
same;  
2. Play a constructive and effective role in awareness in the fields of child health and 
nutrition, advantages of breastfeeding, protection from disease and accidents and 
disadvantages of smoking; and develop the policies and programs necessary to improve health media in this regard;  
3. The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall take the measures necessary to 
protect and children from the use of narcotics, intoxicants and doping substances in 
addition to all substances that affect the mind or from contribution in production, 
trading or promotion thereof;  
4. Support the school health system in order to play its role in the field of protection, 
treatment and health guidance;  
5. Protect from infection with infectious, dangerous and chronic diseases and provide the necessary vaccinations and immunizations;  
6. Develop programs for training of workers in the maternal and child health sector and 
prepare them to achieve the objectives of this Law;  
7. Provide psychological care in a manner that ensures the child's mental, emotional, social 
and linguistic growth; and   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  9 
 8. Take the measures necessary for early examination of children in order to diagnose 
disabilities and chronic diseases.  
  
Article (21) 
No person may:  
1. Sell or attempt to sell tobacco or its products to a child. The seller shall be entitled to 
request from the buyer to provide a proof of reaching 18 years of age;  
2. Smoke in public and private means of transportation and indoors in case of the presence 
of a child;  
3. Sell or attempt to sell intoxicants to a child in addition to any other substances that endangers his health which are determined under a Cabinet Resolution;  
4. Import or trade in substances violating the specifications approved in the State for 
children's food, accessories, food or health or hormonal supplements, or toys.  
  
Chapter Five  
Social Rights  
Article (22) 
The State shall provide a standard of living appropriate for the physical, mental, 
psychological and social growth of the child in accordance with the laws in force.  
  
Article (23) 
Children who neither have a competent sustainer nor a source of income shall be entitled to receive the State's aid in accordance with the laws in force.  
  
Article (24) 
Subject to the laws of personal status and children of unknown parentage, the child who is 
permanently ore temporary deprived of his natural family environment shall be entitled to 
alternative care through:  
  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  10 
 1. A foster family;  
2. Public or private social care institutions in case of the lack of a foster family.  
  
Chapter Six  
Cultural Rights   
Article (25) 
The child shall be entitled to acquire knowledge and means of innovation and creation. To 
this end, the child may participate in recreational, cultural, artistic and scientific programs 
that consistent with his age and the public order and morals. The competent authorities and 
concerned bodies shall develop the programs necessary for this purpose.  
  
Article (26) 
The publication, display, trading, possession or production of any visual, audio or printed 
work or games intended for children that arouse the child's sexual instincts or urge him to 
commit the behaviors violating the public order and morals or encourage on deviance.  
  
Article (27) 
The Executive Regulations of this Law shall specify the places where entry of children is 
prohibited and the controls of entry into other places.  
  
Article (28) 
The managers of cinemas displaying movies and TV channels and the other similar places referred to in the preceding Paragraph shall announce prohibition of children's entrance in a 
prominent place in accordance with the provisions of the Executive Regulations hereof and 
the other regulations in force.  
  
Article (29) 
Communications companies and internet providers shall notify the competent authorities or concerned bodies of any child pornography exchanged through websites. The same shall  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  11 
 also provide necessary information and data on the persons, bodies or websites that 
exchange such materials or intend to mislead children.  
  
Article (30) 
The State shall establish councils, associations, clubs and centers for children that are competent with developing the children's cultural, artistic, scientific, physical and other 
aspects.  
  
Chapter Seven   
Educational Rights   
Article (31) 
Each and every child shall be entitled to education. In addition, the State shall attempt to 
achieve equality of opportunities available to all children in accordance with the laws in 
force.  
  
Article (32) 
In the field of education, the State shall take the following measures:  
1. Prevent children's school dropout;  
2. Promote the participation of children and their parents in the decisions relevant to 
children;  
3. Prohibition of all kinds of  violence in educational institutions and preserving the child's 
dignity upon taking decisions or developing programs;  
4. Develop the educational system including kindergartens in order to achieve its purpose 
to develop each child's mental, physical, emotional, social and ethical aspects;  
5. Develop specific and organized programs for reporting and filing complaints in order to 
ensure investigation of acts and irregularities violating the educational rights set forth in 
this Law in the manner specified by the Executive Regulations.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  12 
 Chapter Eight   
Right to Protection   
Article (33) 
The following shall be particularly considered to be threatening the child's physical, 
psychological, ethical or mental safety and requires his right to protection:  
1. Loss of parents and staying without a sustainer or guardian;  
2. Suffering from rejection, neglect and displacement;  
3. Obvious and continuous delinquency in education and care;  
4. Frequent child abuse;  
5. Sexual abuse or exploitation;  
6. Exploitation by illegal organizations and in organized crimes, e.g.: introduction of 
intolerance and hatred or urging the child to commit acts of violence and intimidation;  
7. Exposure to mendicancy or economic exploitation;  
8. Failure of parents or custodians to protect or educate the child;  
9. Exposure to kidnapping, sale or human trafficking for any purpose or exploitation in any 
form;  
10. Experiencing mental or psychological disability that affects his cognition.  
  
Article (34) 
The child's mental, psychological, physical or ethical safety may not be prejudiced whether 
by abandonment by the custodian or leaving him in a care facility or institution without a 
valid reason, rejecting the child by the custodian or refraining from treating him and taking 
care of his affairs.  
  
Article (35) 
The child's custodian may neither expose him to abandonment, displacement or neglect, frequently leave him without supervision or control, quit guiding the child, refrain from 
taking care of his affairs, abstain from enrolling the child in an educational institution, nor 
leave him in case of school dropout without a valid reason during the stage of compulsory  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  13 
 education.  
  
Article (36) 
Subject to the provisions of Clause (2) of article (2) hereof, it shall be prohibited to expose 
the child to torture or physical assault or perform any cruel act that would affect the child's 
emotional, psychological, mental or ethical balance.  
  
Article (37) 
The following acts shall be prohibited:  
1. Using or exploiting the child in filming, recording or producing any pornography;  
2. Producing, publishing, distributing or facilitating children's access to pornography by any means;  
3. Possessing child pornography regardless of the intent to distribute;  
4. Downloading, uploading or sending any child pornography via the internet or any other communications or information technology means;  
5. Custodian's contribution to child's participation in production or filming child pornography or any other sexual acts or allowing the child to do so or help him in any of such acts;  
6. Direct or indirect sexual exploitation of the child by exposing or preparing him for acts of prostitution and debauchery whether or not against a consideration.  
  
Article (38) 
The following acts shall be prohibited:  
1. Using the child in mendicancy;  
2. Recruiting the child in illegal circumstances; and  
3. Engaging the child in a work that hinders his education or endangers his health or his 
physical, psychological, ethical or mental safety.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  14 
 Chapter Nine  
Protection Mechanisms   
Article (39) 
1. The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall work in coordination with the 
Ministry on establishing child protection units aiming at developing and implementing 
child protection mechanisms and measures stipulated herein; and  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Law shall determine the following:  
a. Competences of the child protection units and the operating mechanisms thereof; and  
b. Requirements to be met by the child protection specialist.  
  
Article (40) 
The child protection specialist shall take the oath before exercising his functions and shall be 
competent to perform the following:  
1. Preventive intervention in all cases in which the child's health and physical, 
psychological, ethical or mental safety are threatened or endangered; and  
2. Therapeutic intervention in all cases of abuse, exploitation and negligence and all cases 
stipulated in article (33) hereof.  
  
Article (41) 
The child protection specialist shall, when performing his functions, be entitled to have the following powers:  
1. Collect evidence regarding the incidents that are the subject of the report and attend the 
investigative hearings and trials if necessary;  
2. Enter by himself or accompanied by whoever he needs into any place where the child is 
present with the permission of the owner of that place and he shall present a card 
proving his capacity;  
3. Take the preventative measures appropriate for the child in a manner determined by the Executive Regulations hereof; and   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  15 
 4. Utilize the social researches to reach a determination of the truth of the child's situation.  
  
Article (42) 
1. Anyone may inform the child protection specialist or the child protection units if there is 
a threat to the child's safety or physical, psychological, ethical or mental health; and  
2. The reporting shall be mandatory for the custodians, physicians and social workers or 
those who are entrusted with the protection, care or education of the child.  
  
Article (43) 
Whoever attains the age of majority shall help any child who asks him to report the 
competent authorities or concerned bodies of his suffering or the suffering of any of his 
brothers or any other child in any of the cases stipulated in article (33) hereof.  
  
Article (44) 
The identity of the reporter shall not be disclosed unless his approval is obtained. The 
disclosure of the identities of all parties to the incident and the witnesses in child abuse or 
maltreatment actions when using the information contained in the analyses or media 
reports or the publication of any material that could lead to the disclosure of his identity 
shall be prohibited.  
  
Article (45) 
The concerned bodies and competent authorities shall provide protection to the witnesses 
in all stages of the criminal action.  
  
Chapter Ten   
Protection Measures  
Article (46) 
Subject to the provisions of Articles (47) and (51) hereof, the child protection specialist shall, in agreement with the custodian, take all the necessary measures if there is a threat to the  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  16 
 child's safety or physical, psychological, ethical or mental health in a manner determined by 
the Executive Regulations hereof.  
  
Article (47) 
Subject to the provision of article (51) hereof, the child protection specialist shall submit the following proposals to the child's parents or custodian if it is proved to him that there is a 
threat to the child's safety or physical, psychological, ethical or mental health:  
1. Keeping the child with his family, subject to:  
a. The commitment of the child's parents or custodian, in writing, to take the measures 
required for removing the threat to the child and to keep the child under the periodic 
oversight of the child protection specialist;  
b. The regulation of the methods of social intervention by the concerned bodies and 
competent authorities, as the case may be, concerned with providing the necessary 
social services and assistance to the child and his family; and  
c. Taking the measures necessary for preventing any contact between the child and the threat to his safety or physical, psychological, ethical or mental health.  
2. Placing the child temporarily in an alternative family, an association, or an appropriate social, educational or health institution, whether public or private, in accordance with the controls determined by the Executive Regulations hereof.  
  
Article (48) 
If the child protection specialist achieves the appropriate measures in a form of agreement, 
such agreement shall be written, read and signed by the various parties including the child 
who reached 13 years of age.  
The child protection specialist shall periodically follow up the results of the taken agreement 
measures taken and shall decide, when necessary, to amend the same in a manner that ensures, as much as possible, keeping the child in his family environment.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  17 
 Article (49) 
The child protection specialist shall inform the child's parents or custodian and the child 
who reached 13 years of age of their right to refuse the proposed measure.  
  
Article (50) 
1. The child protection specialist shall refer the matter to the body for which he works to take the necessary measure in the following two cases:  
a. Failure to achieve an agreement within fifteen days as of the date of informing him of the case; and  
b. Violating the agreement by the child's parent, custodian or the 13 -year -old child.  
2. The body for which the child protection specialist works shall take all actions necessary for referring the matter to the public prosecution.  
  
Article (51) 
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles (33), (34), (35), (36), (37) and (38), each and every act or omission that would threaten the child's life, safety or physical, psychological, 
ethical or mental health in a manner that cannot be prevented by the time;  
2. Taking into account the privacy of accommodations, the child protection specialist shall 
initiate, in the event of significant harm to the child or a threat thereto and before 
obtaining a judicial permit, to get the child out of the place where he exists and put him 
in a safe place under his own responsibility. The child protection specialist may ask for 
the assistance of the public authorities.  
3. The child protection specialist shall obtain a court order to continue to take the measures 
stipulated in Clause (2) of this Article within (24) hours as of the time to get the child out 
of the place. The competent judge shall issue his decision within (24) hours as of the date of submitting the request.  
  
Article (52) 
The child protection specialists determined by a resolution issued by the Minister of Justice  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  18 
 shall, in agreement with the Minister and the concerned bodies, have the capacity of judicial 
officers to prove the occurrence of any violation to the provisions of this Law and the 
Regulations and Resolutions issued in implementation thereof.  
  
Article (53) 
The public prosecution and judicial bodies shall ask for the assistance of the child protection specialist in the investigations and trials in which the child is present.  
  
Article (54) 
1. Whoever has been convicted of a sexual abuse crime or pornography crime shall be 
prohibited from engaging in any work or job that allows them directly communicate or 
interact with children even if such person has been rehabilitated;  
2. The judge shall issue a judgment preventing the person who has been convicted of a sexual abuse crime committed a against a child from residing in the region where the 
abused child resides five kilometers away from the child's residence; and  
3. In all cases, the person sentenced to confinement or imprisonment in a sexual abuse crime committed against a child shall not be released unless psychological tests and examinations are conducted to him before the termination of his confinement or 
imprisonment to ensure that he will not pose any danger to the society. In case of 
proving that, the court shall order to put him at a therapeutic shelter after the termination of his confinement or imprisonment. The Executive Regulations hereof shall 
determine the regulation of putting the sentenced person at a therapeutic shelter and the 
procedures for hearing the release requests.  
  
Article (55) 
A register shall be established in the Ministry in coordination with the competent authorities 
to record all child abuse cases. Everything recorded in this register shall be confidential and 
shall not be accessed without the permission of the public prosecution or the competent 
court as the case may be.   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  19 
 Article (56) 
The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall, in coordination with the Ministry:  
1. Specify the special engineering standards and specifications, construction laws and 
safety and security requirements that protect the child from any kind of harm. The 
Executive Regulations hereof shall determine the controls required for the 
implementation of these standards and specifications and the exceptions thereto;  
2. Establish the controls and procedures required for the protection of the child's safety in 
public and recreational places and in public transport and the Executive Regulations 
shall determine such required controls and measures; and  
3. The provisions of Clauses (1) and (2) of this Article shall apply to the public and private 
sectors, save for what is excluded therefrom by a special provision in the Executive 
Regulations.  
  
Article (57) 
The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall take the following measures:  
1. Ensure the product safety in order not to threaten the child's rights contained herein and establish the advertising controls that comply with the child's right to health, survival and growth;  
2. Control the commercial activities so as to ensure that the child is not exposed to any environmental risks or harms.  
  
Article (58) 
The competent authorities and concerned bodies shall ensure the child protection from the dangers of the traffic accidents in accordance with the provisions of the traffic law, as 
amended especially the following:  
1. Prohibiting the sitting of children who are under the age of 10 in the front seats of the 
vehicles of all kinds; and  
2. Establishing controls with regard to the children's use of bicycles.  
   
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  20 
 Article (59) 
Subject to the provisions of the personal status law, the competent court shall, before 
issuing a judgment on the child custody, request the submission of a detailed report about 
the social, psychological and health status and the criminal status of the person applying for 
custody or the person for whom custody will be ordered by the court or the submission of a 
statement that he did not commit any crime outside the State. The Executive Regulations 
shall determine the procedures for preparing these report and statement.  
  
Chapter Eleven   
Penalties   
Article (60) 
Whoever violates any provision of Clause (2) of article (11), Articles (28) and (34), Article 
(35) or Clause (2) of article (42) hereof shall be punished by imprisonment or a fine of not 
less than (AED 5,000) UAE Dirhams five thousand.  
  
Article (61) 
Whoever commits one of the following acts shall be punished by a fine of not less than (AED 
5,000) UAE Dirhams five thousand and not more than (AED 50,000) UAE Dirhams fifty 
thousand:  
1. Violating the provision of article (43) hereof;  
2. Preventing the child protection specialist from performing his functions or hindering his 
work; and  
3. Giving false information or deliberately hiding the truth of the child's situation.  
  
Article (62) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of Clause (2) of article (21) hereof shall be punished 
by a fine of not less than (AED 5,000) UAE Dirhams five thousand.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  21 
 Article (63) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of Clauses (1) and (3) of article (21) hereof shall be 
punished by a term of imprisonment of not less than three months and/or a fine of not less 
than (AED 15,000) UAE Dirhams fifteen thousand.  
  
Article (64) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of Clause (4) of article (21) or article (29) hereof 
shall be punished by a term of imprisonment of not less than six months and/or a fine of not 
less than (AED 100,000) UAE Dirhams one hundred thousand and not more than (AED 
1,000,000) UAE Dirhams one million.  
  
Article (65) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of Clauses (1), (2), (5) and (6) of article (37) hereof shall be punished by a term of imprisonment of not less than ten years.  
  
Article (66) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of article (26) or Clauses (3) and (4) of article (37) 
hereof shall be punished by a term of imprisonment of not less than one year and/or a fine 
of not less than (AED 100,000) UAE Dirhams one hundred thousand and not more than (AED 400,000) UAE Dirhams four hundred thousand.  
  
Article (67) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of article (27) hereof shall be punished by a term of 
imprisonment of not less than one month and not more than six months and by a fine of not 
less than (AED 5,000) UAE Dirhams five thousand.  
  
Article (68) 
Whoever violates any of the provisions of article (14) or the provision of article (38) hereof 
shall be punished by imprisonment and/or a fine of not less than (AED 20,000) UAE  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  22 
 Dirhams twenty thousand.  
If the work endangers the life or physical, mental or ethical safety of the child who is under 
the age of 15, this shall be deemed an aggravating circumstance.  
  
Article (69) 
Whoever violates the provision of article (36) hereof shall be punished by imprisonment and/or a fine of not less than (AED 50,000) UAE Dirhams fifty thousand.  
  
Article (70) 
In implementation of the provisions of this Law, the offender's claim that he did not know 
the age of the victim shall be disregarded.  
  
Article (71) 
The penalties stipulated herein shall not prejudice any more severe penalty stipulated in any 
other law.  
  
Chapter Twelve   
Final Provisions   
Article (72) 
The provisions of this Law shall not prejudice an y rights or aspects of protection that ensure 
that the child enjoys all rights and public freedoms in a better way and the aspects of 
protection and care stipulated in any other applicable legislation.  
  
Article (73) 
The Cabinet shall, upon the proposal of the Minister, issue the Executive Regulations hereof within six months as of the date of publication in the Official Gazette.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (3) of  2016 on Child Rights Law (Wadeema)  23 
 Article (74) 
Any provision inconsistent with or repugnant to the provisions hereof is hereby repealed.  
  
Article (75) 
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force three months 
following the date of publicating thereof.  
  
 
Khalifa bin Zayed Al -Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
Issued by us in Abu Dhabi Presidential Palace  
On: Jumada Al -Awwal 28, 1437 AH.  
Corresponding to: March 8, 2016 AD.  
 
 