 
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  1 
 
       Federal Law No. (9) of 2019  
on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  
 
We Khalifa h bin Zayed Al Nahyan                    President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Having reviewed the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972, on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (17) of 1972, on the Nationality and Passports, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (8) of 1980, Regulating Labour Relations, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1985, Enacting the Civil Transactions Law of UAE, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 1987, Enacting the Penal Code, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (11) of 1992, Enacting the Civ il Procedure Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (35) of 1992, Enacting the Criminal Procedure Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (7) of 1999, Enacting the Law of Pensions and Social Insurances, as 
amended;  
− Federal Law No. (2) of 2001, on the Social Security;  
− Federal Law No. (28) of 2005, on Personal Status;  
− Federal Law No. (9) of 2006, on the Regulations of Population Register and Identity Card, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (29) of 2006, concerning the Rights of Persons with Special Needs, a s 
amended;  
− Federal Law No. (2) of 2008, on Non -Governmental Organizations and Foundations of  
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  2 
 
       Public Welfare;  
− Federal Decree- Law No. (11) of 2008, on Human Resources in the Federal Government, 
as amended; 
− Federal Law No. (10) of 2009, on Sheikh Zayed Housing Programme, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (18) of 2009 Regulating the Registration of Births and Deaths;  
− Federal Law No. (4) of 2013, Regulating the Notary Public Profession, as amended;  
− Federal Decree- Law No. (2) of 2015, Combating Discriminati on and Hatred;  
− Federal Decree- Law No. (4) of 2016, on the Medical Liability;  
− Federal Decree- Law No. (15) of 2016, Establishing the Emirates Schools Establishment;  
− Federal Decree- Law No. (16) of 2016, Establishing the Emirates Health Services 
Establishment;  
− Federal Law No. (13) of 2018, on Voluntary Work;  
− Based on the Proposal of the Minister of Community Development, the approval thereof 
by the Cabinet and the Federal National Council and the ratification of the Federal 
Supreme Council,  
Hereby ena ct the following Law:  
  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Law, the following words and expressions 
shall have the meanings assigned thereto respectively, unless the context requires 
otherwise:   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  3 
 
       State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Ministry : The Ministry of Community Development.  
Minister  : The Minister of Community Development.  
Competent 
Authority  : Any citizen of the State who reaches the age of sixty, whether one or more individuals.  
Senior Emiratis  : Any citizen of the State who reaches the age of sixty, whether one or more individuals.  
Senior Emirati 
who is 
Unable to 
Take Care of 
Himself  : 
Any Senior Emirati who is unable to fully or partially secure his own 
livelihoods, including basic needs of li fe, like a fit person, due to his age 
or the lack of his financial, physical, mental or psychological capabilities.  
Senior 
Emiratis' 
Family : Any person having a criminal accountability and is a wife, husband, son, 
daughter, brother or sister of Senior Emiratis, subject to the absence of a 
son/daughter who is able to take care of the Senior Citizen.  
Caregiver  : A person who is able to take care of a Senior Emirati who is Unable to 
Take Care of Himself, whose name is recorded at the Ministry or the Competent Authority, or otherwise a person appointed by the court.  
 
Service 
Provider  : Any person who provides a direct service, whether paid or unp aid, to any 
Senior Emirati who is Unable to Take Care of Himself.  
 
Violence  : A verbal abuse or deliberate use of force against Senior Emiratis.  
  
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  4 
 
       Abuse  : Any form of degrading treatment of Senior Emiratis, such as 
discrimination, abandonment, negligence, exploitation, blackmail or 
psychological abuse, as defined by the Executive Regulations of this Law.  
 
Senior 
Emiratis' 
Establishment  : A government or private establishment licensed for caring for or 
accommodati ng Senior Emiratis and providing necessary services 
thereto.  
 
Alternative 
Family : A family entrusted to take care of a Senior Emirati who is Unable to Take 
Care of Himself and manage his own affairs where necessary, other than 
his family.  
Relevant Bodi es : Non -governmental associations and organizations of public welfare and 
the private sector's establishments in charge of Senior Emiratis. 
  
Article (2) 
Objectives of the Law 
This Law aims at:  
1. Ensuring that Senior Emiratis enjoy their fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed 
by the Constitution and the legislation in force.  
2. Ensuring that Senior Emiratis access to all information and services related to their rights.  
3. Enabling Senior E miratis to actively participate in society and contribute to developing, 
designing and implementing the policies related thereto.  
4. Providing care and psychological, social and health stability for Senior Emiratis, as well 
as providing all forms of necessary assistance thereto.  
5. Supporting the Senior Emiratis to permanently live within their families and that their 
family and social relationships continue to exist.  
6. Enhancing the standing of Senior Emiratis in society and appreciating their social role. 
   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  5 
 
       Article (3) 
Obligations of the Ministry  
The Ministry, in cooperation with the Competent Authority and Relevant Bodies, shall:  
1. Develop the general plan for implementing policies necessary for improving, developing 
and caring for Senior Emiratis.  
2. Enhance cooperation with regional and international organizations with regard to Senior Emiratis.  
3. Draw up an annual national report on efforts exerted for Senior Emiratis.  
4. Create a database of Senior Emiratis and their Caregivers, violations committed agai nst 
Senior Emiratis, preferential services provided thereto and advanced research and 
studies related thereto.  
5. Provide appropriate methods to quickly receive and process complaints of Senior 
Emiratis.  
6. Provide appropriate rehabilitation preceding the Senior Emiratis life phase. 
7. Establish public Senior Emiratis' Establishments, supervise all Senior Emiratis' Establishments, and have private establishments of such a type licensed or approved to 
be licensed.  
  
Article (4) 
The Right to Independenc e and Privacy 
The Ministry and the Competent Authority shall, in coordination with Relevant Bodies and 
according to the legislation in force in the State, take measures and procedures necessary to 
enable Senior Emiratis to: 
1. Manage their own life affairs with full independence and make their own decisions, 
including their property, financial affairs, place of residence and matters related to their 
health and preventative care.  
2. Respect their privacy and effective communica tion with others.  
2.  
   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  6 
 
       Article (5) 
The Right to Protection  
The Ministry and the Competent Authority, in coordination with Relevant Bodies, shall:  
1. Take all measures and procedures necessary for ensuring the protection of Senior 
Emiratis from exposure to Violence or abuse.  
2. Take immediate protection procedures to prevent violence or abuse.  
3. Provide appropriate assistance to Senior Emiratis who have been exposed to any form of 
Violence or abuse, as defined by the Executive Regulations of this Law.  
  
 
Article (6) 
The Right to Enabling Environment, House, Education and Employment  
The Ministry and the Competent Authority shall, in coordination with Relevant Bodies and 
according to the legislation in force in the State, take measures and procedures necessary for 
enabling Senior Emiratis to:  
1. Access to all services through an enabling and safe e nvironment.  
2. Obtain an accommodation suitable for their conditions and needs.  
3. Engage in the continuing and elderly education programs and volunteering suitable for 
their interests and capabilities.  
4. Obtain proper employment, recruitment or training opportunities.  
5. Enhance mechanisms of taking advantage of their capabilities and integrate them into 
society of all age groups.  
6. Provide to them appropriate means of transportation.  
  
Article (7) 
Social Services  
The Ministry and the Competent Authority shall, in coordination with Relevant Bodies, 
provide social services to Senior Emiratis, particularly the following:  
1. Senior Emiratis' Establishments.   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  7 
 
       2. Clubs and community centers.  
3. Mobile service and care units.  
  
 
Article (8) 
Health Care  
1. Health institutions shall ensure preventative and health care for Senior Emiratis 
according to the legislation in force in the State.  
2. The Ministry and the Competent Authority shall coordinate and follow up with health authorities to provide preventative and health services for Senior Emiratis to be easily 
accessed by various methods.  
3. Necessary measures shall be taken to save li ves of Senior Emiratis and preserve their 
health in circumstances where their approval is impossible to be obtained.  
4. The Ministry shall, in coordination with relevant federal and local government 
authorities, provide health insurance to Senior Emirati s, including nursing home care 
and necessary assistive devices. 
5. The Ministry and the Competent Authority shall qualify sitters for Senior Emiratis through training them on methods and skills of dealing with Senior Emiratis to ensure 
safeguarding their  capabilities and health.  
  
Article (9) 
Confidentiality of Information  
Information and details related to Senior Emiratis shall be strictly confidential and may be 
accessed only according to the legislation in force in the State.  
 
Article (10) 
Preferential Treatment  
1. The Ministry and the Competent Authority shall, in coordination with relevant federal 
and local government authorities, give preference and priority to the interest of Senior 
Emiratis, whatever the interests of other parties may  be, particularly the following:   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  8 
 
       a. Urgency for maintenance expenses lawsuits.  
b. Applications for housing.  
c. Speedy processing of transactions and services of Senior Emiratis.  
d. Obtaining social aids and benefits.  
e. Benefitting from means of transportation and parking.  
f. Relief, ambulance and emergency.  
g. Participating in social and cultural activities and events.  
h. Health services.  
i. Gardens, parks and public places.  
j. Any other matters defined by the Executive Regulations of this Law.  
2. The Cabinet or local governments may issue a decision exempting or reducing fees of 
administrative services provided by federal and local government bodies to Senior 
Emiratis. The aforesaid decision shall define the controls of exemption or reduction.  
  
Article (11) 
No Prejudice to More Favorable Rights and Protections  
The application of the provisions of this Law shall not prejudice any more favorable rights or 
protections granted to Senior Emiratis, in accordance with the legislation in force in the 
State.  
Article (12) 
Proof of Age Document 
Senior Emiratis shall enjoy the rights and benefits prescribed in this Law and resolutions to be issued in 
implementation hereof, by virtue of any official document that proves the age.  
  
 
Article (13) 
Reporting Violence or Abuse  
1. Any person, who is aware of an act of violence or an abuse against Senior Emiratis, shall 
promptly report the same to the Ministry, the Competent Authority or the nearest police  
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  9 
 
       station.  
2. The reporting person's identity may not be disclosed without his  / her consent. The 
identity of all parties to the incident may not be disclosed in reports or lawsuits involving 
violence or abuse against Senior Emiratis.  
  
Article (14) 
Obligations of Senior Emiratis' Families  
Subject to the provisions of Federal Law No. (28) of 2005, referred to hereinabove, Senior 
Emiratis' families, as further detailed by the Executive Regulations of this Law, shall:  
1. Take care of the Senior Citizen, particularly a Senior Emirati who is Unable to Take Care 
of Himself . 
2. Provide expenses necessary for covering his needs.  
3. Cooperate with Senior Emiratis' Establishments. 
4. Take measures deemed necessary for protecting him from Violence or Abuse, as well as 
providing general safety requirements at the house where he resides.  
5. Promptly notify the Ministry, the Competent Authority or the nearest police station in 
case of th e Senior Citizen's death or the absence of the Senior Emirati who is Unable to 
Take Care of Himself from home.  
6. Notify the Ministry or the Competent Authority in case the place of residence of a Senior Emirati who is Unable to Take Care of Himself is c hanged.  
  
Article (15) 
Alternative Family  
1. Subject to prior approval of the Ministry or the Competent Authority, an Alternative Family may take care of a Senior Emirati who is Unable to Take Care of Himself if he has no Family taking care of him, or in case his Family is unable or ineligible to provide such 
a care.  
2. In order to take care of Senior Emiratis, an Alternative Family shall be required to:  
3. Be a UAE family, unless the Ministry decides otherwise.   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  10 
 
       4. Provide him a room that secures his privacy.  
5. Be able to take care of him and provide his needs.  
6. Be located within an environment similar to his social environment as much as possible.  
7. Enable his friends and relatives to visit him and to verify his wellbeing. 
8. Have a positive social culture and familiarity with the best way to deal with him.  
9. Undertake the same obligations set forth in Items (3), (4), (5) and (6) of the preceding 
Article.  
10. Undertake to not deliver Senior Emiratis under their care to an y other Family, even if for 
a temporary period, or abandon the same without the approval of the Ministry or the 
Competent Authority.  
11. Any other conditions or controls set by the Ministry and the Competent Authority.  
  
Article (16) 
Services of Senior Emiratis' Establishments  
1. Senior Emiratis shall be entitled to access the services of Senior Emiratis' Establishments 
free of charge, in accordance with the controls defined by the Executive Regulations of 
this Law.  
2. Relevant Bod ies may establish Senior Emiratis' Establishments according to the 
conditions and specifications defined by the Ministry and the Competent Authority, based on a license from the Ministry or the Competent Authority, following the 
Ministry's approval.  
  
Article (17) 
Standards and Facilities  
The Executive Regulations of this Law shall define the following:  
1. UAE Code of Enabling Environment for Senior Emiratis' needs.  
2. Employment facilities and benefits granted to Caregiver to enable the same to properly 
perform care duties.   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  11 
 
       Article (18) 
Obligations of Federal and Local Government Authorities  
All federal and local government authorities shall safeguard Senior Emiratis' r ights in the 
course of performing their respective functions, provide all facilities necessary for them 
through an enabling and safe environment, and provide the Ministry with necessary actions 
taken in this respect.  
  
Article (19) 
Administrative Penalties  
Without prejudice to the legally -prescribed administrative penalties, the Ministry or the 
Competent Authority may impose any of the following penalties on    violating Senior 
Emiratis' Establishments: 
1. Written notification.  
2. Written warning.  
3. Temporary suspension of license for a period not exceeding six months.  
4. License revocation.  
  
Article (20) 
Senior Emiratis' Protection Units  
Senior Emiratis' protection units shall be established at both the Ministry and the Competent 
Authority. The Ex ecutive Regulations of this Law shall define:  
1. Functions of such units and the mechanism of their operation.  
2. Conditions to be fulfilled by the staff of such units.  
  
Article (21) 
Penalties  
The application of the penalties set forth herein shall not prejudice to any severer penalty set  
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  12 
 
       forth in any other law.  
  
Article (22) 
Any person who establishes, operates or manages a Senior Emiratis' Establishment in 
violation of the provisions of this Law, shall be sentenced to imprisonment and/or a fine not 
less than (AED 100,000) one hundred thousand dirhams and not more than (AED 
1,000,000) one million dirhams.  
  
Article (23) 
Any person who provides a service to a Senior Emirati who is Unable to Take Care of Himself, or who 
takes care of the same and commits a violence or an abuse against the Senior Citizen, shall be sentenced 
to imprisonment and/or a fine not less than (AED 10 ,000) ten thousand dirhams and not more than (AED 
50,000) fifty thousand dirhams.  
  
Article (24) 
Any person who commits an act of violence or abuse against a Senior Emirati who is Unable 
to Take Care of Himself, other than the one mentioned in the precedin g Article, shall be 
sentenced to imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years and/or a fine not less than (AED 10,000) ten thousand dirhams and not more than (AED 50,000) fifty thousand dirhams.  
  
Article (25) 
The below persons shall be sentenced to i mprisonment for a period not exceeding one year 
and/or a fine not less than (AED 10,000) ten thousand dirhams and not more than (AED 50,000):  
1. A person who becomes aware that any of the crimes referred to in the above two Articles 
are committed and does not promptly report the same to the Ministry, the Competent Authority or the nearest police station.  
2. A person who discloses the identity of a person who reports a crime against a Senior  
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  13 
 
       Emirati who is Unable t o Take Care of Himself without the reporter's consent, or 
discloses the identity of parties to incidents related to such crimes.  
  
Article (26) 
Recidivism 
The penalties set forth in this Law shall be doubled in case of recidivism.  
  
Article (27) 
Reconciliation  
A criminal action shall lapse in respect of the crimes, under consideration in this Law, by way 
of reconciliation before a final judgment is rendered thereon. In order to complete the reconciliation, the acceptance of both the victim and the Ministry or the Competent 
Authority shall be required.  
The Executive Regulations of this Law shall define the conditions and controls of 
reconciliation.  
  
Article (28) 
Judicial Officers  
Employees designated by a resolution of the Minister of Justice, in a greement with the 
Minister or the head of the Competent Authority, shall have the capacity of judicial officers 
to process the violations committed in breach of this Law and resolutions issued in 
implementation hereof, within the area of competence of each  of them.  
  
Article (29) 
Issuance of the Executive Regulations  
The Cabinet shall issue the Executive Regulations of this Law, based on a proposal from the Minister, within six months from the date of its publication.  
  
Federal Law No. (9) of 2019 on the Rights of Senior Emiratis  14 
 
       Article (30)  
Abrogation of Contradictory or Conflicting Provisions  
Any provisions contradicting or are in conflict with this Law shall be abrogated.  
  
Article (31) 
Publication and Entry into Force  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force six months 
following the date of its publication.  
  
 
 
Khalifa h bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi  
Dated: 22nd Rabi' Al -Thani 1441 AH,  
Corresponding to: 19th December 2019 AD  
 
 