 
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  1 
 Federal Law No (2) of 2001  
on The Social Security  
 
We, Zayed bin Sultan Al -Nahyan   president of United Arab Emirates,  
− After reviewing constitution,  
− Federal law No. (1) of 1981 on reviewing the competences of ministry and powers of 
ministers and laws in amendment thereof,  
− Federal law No. (12) for the year 1981 on reviewing the social security and laws in amendment thereof,  
− On basis of proposal made  by Minister of Labor and Social Affairs, approval of Council of 
Ministers and federal national council and sanction of Supreme Federal Council,  
The following law has been enacted:  
 
Part One  
Definitions   
Article (1)  
"Upon applying the provisions of this Law, the following words and expressions shall have the meanings assigned thereto respectively, unless the context requires otherwise:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Ministry  : The Ministry of Community Development.  
Minister  : The Minister of Community Development.  
Department  : The Department of Social Security.  
Committee  : The Social Assistance Committee.  
Family  : A group of people consisting of a husban d and one or more wife 
and their children or some members of such group if they live 
together. The family also includes:  
1. Son up to the age of eighteen, however, a son is deemed a 
family member above this age if it is proved that he is  
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  2 
 enrolled in edu cation until he completes it or is employed.  
2. Daughter up to the age of eighteen, however, a daughter is 
deemed a family member above this age if it is proved that 
she is enrolled in education until she completes it, unless she marries or is employed.  
Breadwinner  : Any financially -capable person obligated, based on Sharia 
principles, to support his entitled family members, falling under the categories set forth in the provisions of this Law; provided 
that the breadwinner's income must be more than doub le the 
value of the assumed assistance.  
Widow  : 
Any woman below sixty years of age whose husband died and 
her "Iddah" expired, and she has not married again and has no 
source of income or a financially -capable Breadwinner.  
Divorcee  : a. Any woman below thirty five years of age who is divorced and her "Iddah" is expired, and she has not married again and 
has no source of income or a financially -capable 
Breadwinner.  
b. b. Any woman above thirty five years of age who is divorced 
and her "Id dah" is expired, and she has not married again and 
has no source of income.  
Deserted Wife  : Any woman proved to be deserted by her husband, based on Sharia principals, and has no source of income or a 
financially -capable Breadwinner.  
Disabled  : Any individual who suffers from a mental or physical disability or 
a psychological functions disorder reducing his ability to perform 
his natural role in the community, in comparison to his 
counterparts of the same age and gender in the societal and 
cultur al framework in which he lives, and has no source of 
income.   
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  3 
 Elderly  : Any person at the age of sixty and has no source of income.  
Orphan : Any person whose father died before reaching the age of majority 
and has no source of income or a financially -capable 
Breadwinner.  
Person of 
Unknown -Par
entage  : A person below the age of majority who is born of unknown 
parents and has no source of income, is not in the care of a 
financially -capable person and no entity is supporting him.  
Unmarried 
Girl  : a. Any girl above the age of eighteen and below the age of thirty five and has not married or worked and has no source of 
income or a financially -capable breadwinner.  
b. Any girl above the age of thirty five and below the age of sixty and has not married or worked and has no source of income.  
Disabled Patient  : Any person below the age of sixty who suffers from a total or partial disability preventing him from earning his living or supporting his family and has no source of income.  
Married Student  : Any married male student enrolled in an educational institution and has no source of income.  
Prisoner's Family  : Any family whose breadwinner is sentenced to imprisonment or arrested by a competent authority for a period of at least two months and has no  source of income, or otherwise if the family's 
income is less than the amount entitled to its Breadwinner if he would have received a social assistance, pursuant to the 
provisions of this Law. The prisoner shall not be counted as a 
family member when the assistance is provided.  
Financially -In
capable  
Person  : Any person whose income from his work is less than the amount 
entitled thereto had he received a social assistance, pursuant to 
the provisions of this Law; provided that it must be proved that 
he is incapable of performing any other work to increase his 
income.   
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  4 
  
Part Two  
Validation Extent of This Law Provisions  
Article (2)  
This law provisions shall apply to citizens who reside within the state from persons who 
fulfill the conditions stipulated in this law.  
  
Article (3)  
With the exception of holding the nationality of the state mentioned in the preceding article : 
1. female citizen who marries foreigner shall deserve the social assistance for herself and 
her children in the following cases:  
1. the husband was stricken by the morbid disability that prevents him from working.  
2. Imprisoning or arresting the husband by co mpetent authority for period not less than 
two months or deporting him.  
The committee, that examines the demand of the woman who marries foreigner, may grant 
her assistance for herself only in the two following cases:  
1. if the husband has no income becaus e of reason beyond control.  
2. If the income of the husband is less that what the family might deserve if he received 
the social assistance in the two mentioned cases. The husband shall be excluded 
from the family members who enjoy with the social assistance.  
3. The widow citizen whose foreign husband died shall deserve the social assistance for 
herself and her children.  
4. The divorced and foreign widow who married citizen and procreated children from him 
that she undertakes their guardianship within the s tate and didn't marry shall deserve 
the social assistance for herself , in case of divorcing her or death of her husband 
provided that she shall has no income source or capable supporter.  
  
Article (4)  
1. The following categories shall deserve the social assistances according to this law  
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  5 
 provisions: the widow, the divorced, the disabled, the aged, the orphan, The person 
whose parents are unknown, the unmarried girl, who is stricken by the morbid disability, 
the married student, the family of the prisoner, T he disabled materially and the 
abandoned woman.  
2. by resolution from the council of ministers according to proposal from the Minster other 
categories may be added to categories stipulated in term (1) of this article when 
required.  
  
Article (5)  
The amount of the social assistance shall be determined by resolution from the council of ministers according to the proposal of the minister.  
If the family consists of one person who lives lonely in separated housing and depends totally on the social assistance, he shall be granted allowance amounts (375) three hundred and seventy five dirham monthly in addition to the social assistance that he deserves that for 
categories of old person, widowhood, healthy disability, orphan and the disabled.  
These amounts  may be increased by resolution from the council of ministers according to 
proposal from the minister.  
  
Part Three  
Linking The Social Assistance  
Article (6)  
If the person who deserves the social assistance has no income, the assistance shall be paid 
total ly. If he has income , the assistance shall be decreased according to the amount of the 
income provided that the assistance amount in this case shall not be less than (625) six hundred and twenty five dirham monthly for every person. The social assistance of the 
materially disabled persons shall be determined and rules relate to such shall be organized 
by resolution from the council of ministers.  
The following shall not be considered income in implementing this law provisions:  
1. income resulted from earnin g work from the house and environmental products.   
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  6 
 2. Assistance presented by the non -relatives or by relatives who aren't obligated with the 
expense legally.  
3. Compensation that the assistance deserved or members of their families received during 
training  or rehabilitating them vocationally.  
4. What is paid for who deserves the assistance or their families' members from kind or 
cash assistance from the medicinal and social establishments for remedy.  
5. Compensations determined for students in the different education phases.  
6. Compensations that are due regularly.  
  
Article (7)  
1. The  committee may disburse  exceptional social assistances for who has no work 
because of reason out of his will and has no income source. The period of disbursing 
the assistance shall be six months that may be extended to similar periods by 
resolution from the minister.  
2. For whom  this assistance was determined shall search for work within the period 
specified in the preceding paragraph , with the assistance of the competent authorities. 
In case he refuses to join the work provided to him, his right in the assistance that 
determine d to him shall be lapsed.  
  
Part Four  
Article (8)  
Procedures and conditions of demanding the assistance:  
1. The  assistance demander shall submit to the department where the demander resides in 
its jurisdiction and the documents that determined by resolutio n from the minister shall 
be attached thereto.  
2. The department shall perform the social research of the status of the assistance requester. Then it shall refer the request with its attachments with the result of the social 
research to the committee within thirty days from the date of submitting the request.  
3. The committee shall examine the requests submitted to it by the priority that is revealed  
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  7 
 by the social research of the status. The committee shall issue its decisions by accepting 
or refusing the d emand within thirty days from its submitting date to it provided that the 
issued decision by refusing the demand that shall be joined by reasons and shall be informed to the involved person.  
  
Article (9)  
The assistance shall be disbursed to its deserved as of the beginning of the month that follows the date of issuing the committee decision by accepting the demand. If it was proved 
that the deserved misuses it for any reason, the committee may disburse it to the legal 
guardian, custodian or any of the other members of the family who have competence. The 
delegation in receiving the assistance is allowed by approved proxy.  
  
Article (10)  
The assistance deserved, legal guardian or the custodian, according to c ase, shall present 
annual statement of the deserved of the financial or social assistance after passing year from 
receiving the assistance according to conditions determined by resolution from the minister 
and he shall inform the department immediately by any change of his residence place or his financial or social status that may lapse the right of assistance or amend its amount.  
  
Article (11)  
The department shall observe the status of the assistance deserved twice at least every year . 
it shall undertake  these procedures if the assistance deserved defaulted to receive it fro two 
successive payments.  
The observation shall be performed by social research executed by the department to 
determine the legal position of the assistance deserved and the financial and social change 
that has happened to his social or financial status. The committee in the light of the results of 
the social research mentioned in the preceding paragraph and subject to this law provisions 
or regulations issued upon such may issue decision joined by reasons to increase, decrease 
or cancel the assistance.   
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  8 
 Article (12)  
If the assistance deserved didn't demand what he deserves after passing three months from 
date when he knew its maturity, his right in the deserved amount shall be lapsed . and his 
right in the assistance shall be lapsed totally, if its owner didn't demand such within six 
months from date of linking it or disbursing the amount to him unless he presented excuse 
accepted by the committee. Whoever whose right in the assistance or  compensation was 
lapsed may not be superseded by another in the maturity.  
  
Article (13)  
Whoever that decision was issued by refusing his request, decreasing his deserved 
assistance or lapsing his right therein may grieve from this decision to the ministe r within 
sixty days from day when he was informed by this decision.  
  
Article (14)  
The grievance mentioned in article (13) of this law  shall be decided by committee of 
grievances formed by resolution of the minister. the committee shall submit its 
recommendation of the complaint within period doesn't exceed thirty days from the date of 
receiving the grieve and the decision of the ministe r shall be irrevocable.  
 
Article (15) 
If the social assistance deserved died, the amounts that he deserves before his death shall be disbursed to his family. If the deceased is the husband, the assistance deserved for him 
before his death shall be continue d to be disbursed to his widow and till terminating its legal 
period of waiting.  
  
Article (16)  
The assistance may not be assigned or seized unless to fulfill expense judged for any of the family members who profit from this law provisions by what doesn't exceed the half of the 
deserved assistance and within amounts determined for every person.   
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  9 
 Part Five  
Article (17)  
The ministry may lapse the assistance and recover what was disbursed from such 
unlawfully, if the person to whom the assistance was determined has committed any of the 
following acts, without breaching the criminal liability:  
1. presenting incorrect data that caused granting or increasing the assistance or continuing to disburse it unlawfully.  
2. Forged a document or used a forged document that caused granting or increasing the assistance or continuing to disburse it unlawfully.  
  
Part Six  
Final Provisions   
Article (18)  
The committee shall be formed by resolution from the minister and this resolution shall 
determine the rules related to the system of working therein.  
  
Article (19)  
Urgent relief aid shall be granted to families and individuals to face the public and private 
calamities and disasters by resolution from the minister according to the resolution of the 
council of ministers that organizes the amount of these assistances an d rules relate to 
disbursing it.  
  
Article (20)  
The procedures of the medical examination shall be organized by decision from the minister 
according to systems of ministry of health in cases that requires performing such 
examination.  
  
  
Federal Law No (2) of 2001 o n The  Social Security  10 
 Article (21)  
The mi nister shall issue the required regulations and resolutions to enforce this law.  
  
Article (22)  
The federal law No. (13) for the year 1981 shall be repealed.  
  
Article (23)  
Every provision breaches or conflicts with this law provisions shall be repealed.  
  
Article (24)  
This law shall be promulgated in the official gazette and shall be enforced from its 
promulgation date.  
  
 
Zayed Bin Sultan Al- Nahyan  
President of United Arab Emirates  
 
 