Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (42) of 2024  
Concerning t he Rewards and Incentives Scheme  for Federal Government  
Employees   
 
The Cabinet,  
- Having reviewed:  
- The Constitution;  and  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972, on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended; and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. ( 49) of 2022, on Human Resources of the Federal 
Government; and  
- Cabinet Resolution No. (48)  of 2023, on the Executive Regulati ons of Federal Decree -
Law No. ( 49) of 2022, on Human Resources of the Federal  Government; and  
- Based o n the Proposal submitted by the Minister of State for Government 
Development and the Future, the Chairman of the Federal Authority for Government 
Human Resources, and  the Cabinet approval thereof,  
Hereby resolves as follows:   
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
The same definitions  set forth in Federal Decree -Law No. (49) of 2022, on Human 
Resources of the Fe deral Government, shall apply to the present Resolution; otherwise, 
the following words and expressions shall bear the meanings assigned thereto 
respectively, unless the context requires otherwise:  
Scheme  : The Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees.  
Committee  : The Rewards and Incentives Committee of the Federal Entity 
referred to in this Resolution.  
  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  2 
 Article (2)  
Objectives  
The Scheme  aim s to:  
1. Provide mechanisms that enable the Federal Entities  to motivate their work ing teams  
and employees in recognition of their valuable con tributi on and achievements, and 
retai n talented and competent public employees , so as to enhance the culture of 
loyalty, competiveness  and achievement and upscale levels of overall performance; 
and  
2. Achieve transparency, fairness and equal opportunities in granting rewards to eligible 
persons , in line with the objectives and directions of the F ederal G overnment.   
 
Article (3)  
Scope of Application  
1. The provisions of this Resolution shall apply to the Employees serving at the Federal 
Entities  governed by the provisions of Federal Decree -Law No. (49) of 2022, on 
Human Resources of the Federal Government, of different job grades, e mployment 
patterns and types of work.  
2. The following categories shall b e excluded from the application of the provisions of 
this Resolution:  
a. Employees on probation;  
b. Employees appointed on a temporary employment basis if the term of the contract 
is less than (3) three months;  
c. Employees whose service has terminated for whatever reason, except for 
Employees whose service has terminated for reaching the age of retirement;  
d. Outsourced Employee s;  
e. Members of teams and committees to who m financial allowances are paid  out 
under any legi slation  in force; and  
f. The entities that have their own rewards and incentives policies and regulations . 
 
Article (4)  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  3 
 Types of Incentives  
The Resolution defines two major  types of incentives that ca n be granted to E mployees of 
the Federal  Government Entities , as follows:  
1. Financial Incentives: Including cash  bonuses or incentives, or other forms of 
financial  recognition .  
2. In-Kind Incentives: Including certificates, awards or any other forms of in-kind 
recognition . 
 
Article (5)  
General Provisions  
In order for any of the financial incentive s set forth herein  to be disbursed , the following  
requirements shall be fulfilled :  
1. Appropriations must be available in the approved budget of the Federal Entities .  
2. No single employee may concurrently benefit from both an annual performance 
bonus and any type of promotion, adjustment of special benefits or benefits of experts 
and consultants during the same year. A period of not less than (12) twelve months 
must have lapsed following the last promotion or adjustment of benefits or annual 
performance  bonus received by the employee.  
3. An annual performance bonus and any other bonus under the categories set forth in 
the present Scheme  may be concurrently combined, without prejudice to the 
stan dards and conditions stipulated for each category.  
4. An Employ ee may be granted more th an one bonus or in -kind rewards , as per the 
categories described hereunder, within one year, except for annual performance 
bonuses that are granted once a year, taking into account the conditions related  
thereto .  
5. The total value of all categories of bonuses, including an annual performance bonus, 
that an Employee can obtain in one year  under the provisions of the present 
Resolution , must not exceed  (AED 100,000) one hundred thousand dirhams . Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  4 
 6. The E mployee must not have been subject to an administrative sanction  during the 
year of nomination for any of the bonuses set forth in this  Resolution , unless the  legal 
effect thereof has been eliminated.  
7. The C ommittee may add other standards or requirements, as required by the interest 
of work.  
8. The C hairman of the Federal Entity  may grant UAE national Employees , whose service 
has terminated for reaching the age of retirement , pursuant to Federal Law No. (7) of 
1999, on Pensions and S ocial Insurances, as amended, and Federal Decree -Law No. 
(57) of 2023, on Pensions and Social Insurances, a cash or in-kind  reward ; provided 
that the value of the reward does not exceed (AED 50,000) fifty  thousand dirhams,  
except for employees whose service has terminated by retirement and who  are paid  
financial rewards under any other incentive policies or programs.  
9. The Federal Entity  may submit proposals to add extra  categories or types of rewards 
by submitting them as a recommendation to the Federal Authority for Government 
Human Resources for consideration and decision, and then be submitted by FAHR for 
approval by the  Cabinet.  
 
Article (6)  
Categories of  Rewards and Incentives   
The  Employee, work team members or participant from outside the Federal Entity  may be 
granted  one of the following  Rewards and Incentives : 
1. Annual Performance Bonus:  Associated with  the results of the annual performance 
management system and the levels of  competency and productivity, and  shall be 
granted as set out in Annex (1) hereunder.  
2. Bonus for Outstanding Achievements : It includes categories to be honored for 
value -added ac hiev ements at the level of the Federal Entity  (beyond the job duties and 
responsibilities), and  shall be granted as set out in Annex (1) hereunder, including the 
following categories:  
a. Exceptional  Teams : It is granted to team members who have successfully 
achieved projects or exceptional achievements with a ta ngible positive effect , Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  5 
 whether such projects or achievements of the work team are at the Government 
level or at the Federal Entity ’s level.  
b. Achievement Makers : It is granted  to Employees who demonstrate outstanding  
or extraordinary efforts  in implementing functions  that suppo rt government 
orientations  or the Entity ’s stra tegy, raising the Entity ’s efficiency or improving  the 
services provided to relevant  categories .  
c. Innovation Pioneers : It is granted to E mployees or work  team members who 
introduce creative ideas, in accordance with the standards of the proposal system 
ado pted by the Federal Entity ; provided that the introduced innovations 
contribute to achieving tangible results in developing government operations and 
services, improving levels of performance, productivity and effectiveness, realizing 
additional revenues, reducing the Entity ’s expe nses, designing initiatives that have 
an effect on the Entity  or the G overnment or other priorities set by the Entity . 
d. Top Competitors : It is granted to Employees or work team members who won or 
took fi rst ranks of competitions at the Federal Entity , in accordance with the 
mechanisms  adopted  for competitions or awards.  
e. Immediate H onor ing: Immediate recognition given to E mployees, upon 
nomination by the Direct Superior,  for their valuable contribution to  the Entity ’s 
area of work, or for taking initiative to efficiently and effectively  implement or  
achieve an achievement beyond  the scope of job duties . 
3. Reward for  Impressive Patriotic Accomplishments : It includes categories honored 
for rooting  the values of national identity and consolidating the State’s reputation and 
enhancing  its competitiveness and global leadership. I t is granted in accordance with 
Annex (1) hereunder, including the following categories:  
a. Patriotic  Accomplishment : It is granted  to employees  or work team members 
who enhanced the UAE’s reputation worldwide  through their notable 
contributio n to making a tangible positive effect on the State’s position worldwide , 
achieving advanced results for the State in international competitiveness report s, 
enhancing the values and culture of the  UAE worldwide , obtaining  international 
recognition, winning elections or voting for chair ing inter national committees  or Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  6 
 winning regio nal or international competitions and othe r relevant fields as 
determined by the Entity .  
b. Social  Accomplishments : It is granted  to Employees or work team members who 
have contribut ions or voluntary work that have a positive effect on the  society  or 
environment.  
 
Article (7)  
Functions and Responsibilities  
By virtue of a resolution of the Chairman of the Federal Entity , a Rewards and Incentives 
Committee shall be formed in each Federal Entity , under the chairmanship of the 
Undersecretary or the Director -General or the li ke, and comprising members of the Entity , 
and  a rapporteur for the C ommittee, in order to implement the provisions of this 
Resolution  in accordance with the following functions  and responsibilities:  
The Entity  Functions & Responsibilities  
The Chairman or his 
delegate  1. Approving annual budgets of the Rewards and 
Incentives  Scheme , in accordance with the 
mechanisms and procedures approved by the Federal 
Government.  
2. Approving lists o f Employ ees who are entitled to 
rewards , and the value of rewards  and incenti ves for 
each one .  
The Rewards and 
Incentives Committee   1. Reviewing the annual budget of the Scheme  at the 
level of the Federal Entity , and proposing funds 
required to be allo cated within the budget of the 
Federal Entity .  
2. Complyi ng and following the procedures set out in the 
framework of governance and procedure s for 
granting rewards  and incentives, as set out  in this 
Resolution, attached as Annex (2) hereunder.  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  7 
 3. Examining applications, approving  the list of 
Employees and the values of rewards  and submit ting  
them to the C hairman of the Entity  or his delegate fo r 
approval, taking into account that the maximum total 
value of all categories  of rewards , includi ng the annual 
performance bonus, that an employee  can obtain  a 
year  under the provisions of this Resolution, an 
amount of (AED 100,000)  one hundred thousand 
dirhams.  
4. Submitting meeting minutes of the Committee  and 
having the same approved by the chairman of the 
Committee.  
5. Drawing up regular reports on the results of app lying 
the Rewards and Incentives Scheme  to the Federal 
Entity . 
The HR Department  1. Reviewing  nomination applications  in accordance 
with the standards and conditions  set out in this 
Resolution, making  any comments  on the same  and 
submit ting  them to the C ommittee for consideration, 
taking into account that the maximum total value of 
all categories of rewards , including the annual 
performance bonus, which  an employee can obtain a 
year under the provisions of this Resolution, an 
amount of (AED 100,000) one hundred thousand 
dirhams.  
2. Coordinating  with the  depar tment of finance to 
ensure that the necessary f inancial allocations are 
available  before submitting  any requ ests or 
recommendations to the C ommittee.  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  8 
 3. Regular review of the Entity’s mechanisms for 
granting rewards  and incentives, and evaluating the 
effectiveness of implementing the  Scheme .  
4. Maintaining all recor ds and documents (decisions of 
payment of rewards ) related to the nominations and  
the justifications  of each one . 
The Department of 
Finance  1. Ensuring the availability of fina ncial allocations 
necessary for  paying out rewards  and incentives, in 
accordance  with the approved Federal Entity ’s budget.  
2. Paying  out rewards  and giving in -kind rewards  upon 
the issued resolutions and the approved financial 
allocations.  
3. Making sure that the maximum total value of all 
categories of rewards , including the annual 
performance bonus, that an employee can obtain a 
year under the provisions of this Resolution, an 
amount of (AED 100,000) one hundred thousand 
dirhams.  
 
Article (8) 
Submission of Annual Reports on the Scheme  Application  Results  
The Rewards and Incentives Committee  of the Federal Entities  shall submit  repo rts, per 
annum or upon request, to the Federal Authority fo r Government Human Resources on 
the results of implementing the Rewards and Incentives Scheme  at the level of the Federal 
Entity . The reports shall include clear information on Employees  and work teams and their 
members who benefit from this Resolution, in accordance with the categories and 
conditions set  forth therein, along with the significant observations and justifications 
supporting the same.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  9 
 Article (9)  
Repeals  
Cabinet Resolution No. (18) of 2015, on the Regulations for Granting Rewa rds and 
Incentives for Empl oyees of the Federal Government, and any provision that conflicts 
with, or repugnant  to the provisions of this Resolution , shall hereby be repealed.  
 
Article (10)  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force as of 
the day following the date of its issuance  
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us:  
Dated: 6th Shawwal 1445 AH   
Corresponding to: 15th April 2024 AD  
  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  10 
 Annex (1) to Cabinet Resolution No. (42) of 2024  
Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme  for Federal Government 
Employees  
 
First:  Annual Performance Bonuses:  
Bonus Name  Annual Bonus  
Description  The Federal Entity  may grant an annual bonus to E mployees who 
have distinguished themselves in achieving the targets  and 
function s assigned to them in accordance with th e performance 
management system, and who have scored (3) or higher or the 
equivalent  grade  in the performance appraisal , in accordance 
with the allocated budget of the Entity  for such  bonus .  
Bonus Value  • Performance appraisal (5) or the equivalent  – up to 200% of 
the total salary.  
• Performance appraisal ( 4) or the equivalent – up to 150 % of 
the total salary.  
• Performance appraisal (3) or the equivalent – up to 100% of 
the total salary.  
Provided that  the maximum total value of all categories of 
bon uses  (all types of rewards, including bonuses, in -kind rewards 
and the annual performance bonus) , which can be granted to the 
Employee under the provisions of this Resolution, an amount of 
(AED 100,000) one hundred thousand dirhams.  
Conditions & 
Controls  1. The  Employee must have completed at least one year of 
service at the Federal Entity . 
2. The E mployee must be on duty from 1st January to 31st 
December.  
3. The  Employee must have efficiently and  effectively  achieved  
his job targets  according to the performance management Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  11 
 syste m, and must have scored (3) or higher or the equivalent  
grade , which make s the E mployee eligible for the annual 
bonus , subject to the approval of the Chairman of the Entity  
and the b udget allocated for such bonus.  
4. The C hairman of the Entity  may add other standards or 
requirements for granting the annual performa nce bonus, as 
required by the interest  of work.  
5. The total salary includes the bas ic salary, b onuses, allowances 
set forth in the ap proved grading and salary scale, and does 
not include n on-recurring financial elements, i.e. housing  
allowance , travel  allowance , assignment allowance …  etc..  
6. If the E mployee’s service terminates before 31st March, the 
Employee sha ll not be entitled to an annual bonus.  
Frequency  To be granted o ne time and may not be recurred in one year.  
Beneficiaries  Employees of the Entity  who are governed by the performance 
management system of the Federal Entity .   
 
  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  12 
 Second:  Bonuses for Outstanding Achievements :  
Category/Bonus 
Name  Exceptional Teams  
Description  It is granted to work team members who have successfully 
achieved projects or exceptional achievements with a tangible 
positive effect , whether such projects or achievements of  the 
work team  are at the Government level or at the Federal Entity ’s 
level.  
Bonus Value  Up to (AED 20,000) twenty thousand dirhams for each  team  
member.  
Conditions & 
Controls  The E mployee must have completed at least one year of service 
at the Federal Entity . 
Frequency  To be granted o ne time, and may be grante d up to (3) three 
times a year; provided that the bonus amount does  not exceed 
(AED 60,000 ) sixty thousand dirhams a year for each team 
member.  
Beneficiaries  Team members.  
 
Category/Bonus 
Name  Achievement Makers  
Description  It is  granted to E mployees who demonstrate outstanding or 
extraordinary efforts  in implementing tasks that support 
government orientations  or the Entity ’s stra tegy, raising the 
Entity ’s efficiency or improving the services provided to 
relevant categories.  
Bonus Value  Up to (AED  10,000 ) ten thousand dirhams.  
Conditions & 
Controls  The E mployee must have completed at least one year of service 
at the Federal Entity . 
Frequency   To be granted one time  for each achievement , and may be 
grante d up to (3) three times a year, provided that the bonus Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  13 
 amount does  not exceed (AED 30,000) thirty thousand 
dirhams a year.  
Beneficiaries  The Employee.   
 
Category/Bonus 
Name  Innovation Pioneers   
Description  It is granted to E mplo yees or work team members who 
introduce creative ideas, in accordance wit h the standards of 
the proposal system adopted by the Federal Entity ; provided 
that the introduced innovations contribute to achieving 
tangible results in developing government operations and 
services, improving levels of performance, productivity and 
effectiveness, realizing  extra  revenues, reducing the Entity ’s 
expenses,  designing initiatives that have an effect on the Entity  
or the government or other priorities as set by the Entity .  
Bonus Value  Up to (AED 7,000) seven  thousand dirhams.  
Conditions & 
Controls  The innovation must be docum ented in the regulations of the 
Federal Entity  and the application thereof must be  approved.  
Frequency   To be granted one time for each  proposal/innovation , and may 
be grante d up to (3) three times a year; provided that the bonus 
amount for each E mployee/ member does  not exceed (AED 
21,000) twenty one  thousand dirhams a year.  
Beneficiaries  The Employee or team members.    
 
Category/Bonus 
Name  Top Competitors   
Description  It is granted to E mployees or work  team members who won or 
took first ranks in competitions at the Federal Entity , in 
accordance with the mechanisms approved for competitions 
or awards.  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  14 
 Bonus Value  Up to (AED 10,000) ten thousand dirhams, or per each team 
member.  
Conditions & 
Controls  1. The competition (competitions or awards) must  have clear 
mechanisms and standards.  
2. The winner must have fulfilled all terms and conditions of 
the competition.     
Frequency   To be granted one time  for the same achievement, and may be 
grante d up to (3) three times a year; provided that the bonus 
amount for each E mployee/member does  not exceed (AED 
30,000) thirty  thousand dirhams a year.  
Beneficiaries  The Employee or team members.    
 
Category/Bonus 
Name  Immediate Honoring   
Description  Immediate recognition given to E mployees, upon nomination 
by the Direct S uperior , for their valuable contribution to the 
Entity ’s area of work, or for taking initiative to implement or 
efficiently and effectively achieve an achievement beyond the 
scope of job duties.  
Bonus Value  A bonus or i n-kind reward up to (AED 1,000) for the E mployee.  
Conditions & 
Controls  1. The E mployee may not be granted  the bonus/reward for 
more than one time in the same month.  
2. The C ommittee shall set the c ontrols for granting such 
bonus and shall so notify officials of the Entity .  
3. When the Direct Superior desires to grant a bonus, he is 
required  to send an application and show the justi fications 
to the HR department, and the depa rtment of finance shall 
pay out the bonus according to the approved mechanisms 
and controls after being approved by the  undersecretary or 
his delegate.  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  15 
 4. Departments of fi nance are required to reflect the controls 
as per the mechanisms  approved in the financial 
procedures.   
Frequency   To be granted one time for  the same achievement , and may be 
grante d up to (3) three times a year; provided that the bonus 
amount per E mployee does not  exceed (AED 3,000) three 
thousand  dirhams a year.   
Beneficiaries  Employees of , or below  the fifth job grade  or the equivalent.  
  
Third:  Bonuses for Impressive Patriotic Accomplishments:  
Category/Bonus 
Name  Patriotic Accomplishment  
Description  It is granted to Employees or work team members who 
enhanced the UAE’s reputation worldwide through their 
notable contribution s to making a tangible positive effect on 
the State’s position worldwide, achieving advanced results for 
the State in an international competitiveness report, enhancing 
the values and culture of the UAE worldwide, obtaining 
international recognition, winn ing elections or voting for 
chairing international committees, or winning regional or 
international competitions and other relevant fields 
determined by the Entity .  
Bonus Value  Up to (AED 20,00 0) twenty thousand dirhams per E mployee or 
working team memb er.  
Conditions & 
Controls  The E mployee or teams must have the documents and 
evidence that support the nomination.  
Frequency  To be granted one time, and may be grante d up to (3) three 
times a year; provided that the bonus amount per 
Employee/member does  not exceed (AED 60,000 ) sixty 
thousand dirhams a year.  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  16 
 Beneficiaries  Employees or team members.  
 
Category/Bonus 
Name  Social Accomplishment  
Description  It is granted to Employees or work team members who have 
contributions or voluntary work that have a positive effect on 
the society or environment, including without limitation:  
• Self -initiative to volunteer in  serving the society;  
• Making contributions t hat enhance the quality of life; and  
• Making a  positive change and influencing  the society.  
Bonus Value  Up to (AED 3,000) three  thousand dirhams per E mployee or 
team member.  
Conditions & 
Controls  1. The E mployee must have completed at least one year of 
service at the Federal Entity ;  
2. The Employee or work teams must have the documents 
proving hours or certificates of voluntarism; and  
3. The Employee must have contributed to voluntary or social 
activities beyo nd the scope of duties at the Entity . 
Frequency  To be granted one time, and may be granted up to (3) three 
times a year; provided that the bonus amount per 
Employee/member does not exceed (AED 9,000) nine  
thousand dirhams a year.  
Beneficiaries  The E mployee or team members.  
 
  Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  17 
 Annex (2) to Cabinet Resolution No. (42) of 2024  
on the Rewards and Incentives Scheme  for  
Federal Government  Employee   
 
Governance Framework and Procedures for Granting  Rewards and Incentives at Federal Entities  
 
  
  
 
 
Nomination  
The nomination for any type of bonuses/ rewards may be made to the Employee or work teams direc tly by self-
nomination, Direct  Superior  or colleagues at the Federal Entity . An exception to the above is the annual  bonus, which is 
based on the Employee’s performance  appraisal  according to the performance management system  of the Entity . All 
nominations shall be submitted to the  HR department of the Entity .  
Submitting Supporting Documents  
A nominee for a bonus shall submit such data that supports his nomination, in accordance with the criteria described for 
each  category in Annex (1), attached herewith, including quantitative and qualitative  indicators that support the 
description of each category.  
Budgetary Check  
The Rewards and Incentives Committee  of the Entity  must ensure the availa bility of budgets allocated for paying out 
bonuses, in coordination with the finance department and in accordance with the appropriations approved  for the Entity . 
Data Validation  
The Rewards and Incentives Committee  shall  verify all nominations received for the honor ing category, in accordance 
with the Rewards and Incentives Scheme , and shall verify the supporting evidence and da ta provided by the nominees 
and verify their authenticity, i n coordination with the  HR dep artment.  
Evaluation & Selection  
Based on  the data validation results, the Rewards and Incentives Committee  shall select nominees accordin g to the 
standards, conditions and controls for  each category, and shall document them in the decisions of paying out allocations, 
and shall submit  the lists /decisions  to the Chairman of the Entity  or his delegate for approval.  Nomination  
Submitting 
Supporting  
Documents   
Budgetary 
Check  Data 
Validation  Evaluation 
& Selection    Honoring    Cabinet Resolution  of 20 24 Concerning the Rewards and Incentives Scheme for Federal Government 
Employees  18 
 Honoring  
The  HR department shall coordinate  with the department of finance to pay out the amount s, then, a list of E mployees or 
teams whose bonuses have been approved shall be announced, as per the announcement mechanism s adopted by each 
Entity .  
 