 
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  1 
   
  
 Federal Decree Law No. (20) of 2022 Regulating the Notary Profession  
 
We, Mohamed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan ,                     President of the U nited Arab 
Emirates  
 
− Having reviewed the Constitution;  
−  Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 concerning the competences of the ministries and the 
powers of ministers, as amended;  
−  Federal Law No. (3) of 1983 on the Federal Judicial Authority, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 Promulgating the UAE Civil Code, as amended;  
− Law of  Evidence in Civil and Commercial Transactions, promulgated by Federal Law 
No. (10) of 1992 as amended;  
− Civil Procedure Law promulgated by Federal Law No. (11) of 1992 as amended;  
−  Federal Decree Law No. (11) of 2008 on Human Resources in the Federal 
Government, as amended;  
−  Federal Law No. (6) of 2012 Regulating the Translation Profession;  
−  Federal Law No. (4) of 2013 Regulating the Notary Profession, as amended;  
−  Federal Law No. (14) of 2016 on the Violations and Administrative Penalties in the 
Federal Government;   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  2 
 −  Federal Decree Law No. (26) of 2019 on the Public Finance;  
−  Federal Decree Law (31) 2021 Promulgating the Penal Code;  
−  Federal Decree Law (46) of 2021 on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services; and  
− Based on the Minister of Justice's proposal approved by the Cabinet;  
Have enacted the following  Law: 
  
Article (1) 
The following words and expressions shall bear the meanings assigned thereto respectively, 
unless the context indicated otherwise:  
 The State:  The United Arab Emirates  
The Ministry:  The Ministry of Justice  
The Minister:  The Minister of Justice  
Chief Justice of the 
Competent Court:  The presiding judge of the competent court of first instance  
The Competent 
Department:  The Ministry's organiz ational unit in charge of notary affairs.  
Department 
Director:  The Competent Department's director  
The Committee:  The Private Notary Admission Committee.  
Notary:  The natural person who performs the functions described in this  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  3 
 Decree Law, including both the Public Notary and Private Notary.  
Public Notary:  An employee of the Competent Department who is designated to 
perform the notarial services according to the pr ovisions of this Decree 
Law.  
Private Notary:  A natural person whose name is listed in the Competent Department's 
roster, and is duly authorized to perform the notarial services, 
according to the provisions of this Decree Law and its Executive 
Regulations .  
Register:  A paper or electronic record in which the transactions managed by the 
Notary are documented.  
Instrument:  Every document, contract, notice or deed that is executed or notarized 
by the Notary, or which is served upon the persons concerned, 
according to the provisions of this Decree Law or any other applicable 
legislation.  
Execution:  The creation or drawing up  and notarization of the underlying 
instrument directly by the Notary at the request of the persons 
concerned.  
Notarization:  The Notary's attestation of the underlying instrument and recording the 
same in the register, according to the provisions of this  Decree Law and 
its Executive Regulations.  
Person 
Concerned:  Anybody who requests that the Notary carry out any transaction 
according to the provisions of this Decree Law and its Executive  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  4 
 Regulations.  
The Minutes:  A document that contains summarized d escription of the procedures 
carried out by the Notary on the underlying instrument, depending on 
the nature of every instrument, according to the provisions of this 
Decree Law and its Executive Regulations.  
Interpreter:  A natural person whose name is li sted in the Ministry's interpreter 
roster, or upon whom the Notary administers a legal oath to perform 
interpretation services in relation to a particular transaction or a set of 
specific transactions.  
IT Means:  Any electronic tool used for carrying out  logical and arithmetic 
calculations, or for storing, sending and receiving the data.  
E-Document:  An electronic record, email message or data statement that is created, 
stored, extracted, copied, sent, communicated or received through any 
IT means on an automated electronic medium, and is understandably 
retrievable.  
E-Signature:  A signature made up of characters, figures, symbols, voice, fingerprint 
or a processing system in an electronic form, and is reasonably attached 
with or connected to an e -docume nt, and which confirms the identity 
of the signer and the latter's acceptance of the content of the data 
involved therein.  
E-Information 
System:  A set of information programs and IT means that are used for the 
creation, processing, management, storage an d exchange of 
e-information and the like.   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  5 
   
Article (2) Scope of Application  
The provisions of this Decree Law shall apply to all persons performing notarial duties in the 
State, including the free zones, with the exception of the local judicial authorities whose 
notarial services are governed by local legislation.  
  
Article (3) Performing Notarial Duties  
The notarial duties shall be exclusively performed by the following persons:  
1. Public Notaries;  
2. Private Notaries; and  
3. Authorized consuls of the State.  
  
Article (4) Functions of the Notary  
The Notary shall perform the following functions:  
1. Notarize the documents and contracts required to be notarized by the law or persons 
concerned, according to the provisions of this Decree Law and its Executive 
Regulations;  
2. Administer the oath accordi ng to the provisions of this Decree Law and its Executive 
Regulations;  
3. Notarize the signatures of persons concerned;  
4. Execute and notarize the affidavits;  
5. Establish the date of private instruments as described in this Decree Law and its 
Executive R egulations;  
6. Notarize the wills of Non -Muslims;   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  6 
 7. Execute and notarize the notices, communications and objections at the request of 
the persons concerned according to the provisions of this Decree Law;  
8. Communicate with the relevant bodies for conducting the necessary verification 
when the execution or notarization referred to in [7] of this article cannot be made;  
9. Affix the executive formula on the instruments according to the provisions of this 
Decre e Law; and  
10. Perform any other functions assigned to him according to the provisions of this 
Decree Law or any other applicable legislation.  
  
Article (5) Language of Instruments  
The instrument executed by the Notary shall be in Arabic, and may, however,  be executed in 
any foreign language, according to the circumstances and subject to conditions to be 
described in a resolution of the Minister.  
  
Article (6) Execution and Notarization of Instruments  
The Notary shall execute, notarize and keep the original s of the documents and instruments 
required to be notarized by the law or persons concerned, shall deliver the copies required 
by the persons concerned, and shall record the same in the register as described in the 
executive regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (7) Verification of Identity and Capacity of Persons Concerned  
Before carrying out any transaction, the Notary shall take the following actions:  
1. Verify the identity of the p ersons concerned, by reviewing the ID card, passport or 
any other official document issued by the State;   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  7 
 2. Verify the capacity, eligibility of the persons concerned and their acceptance of the 
contents of the underlying transaction; and  
3. Read out the co ntent of the underlying transaction and reveal the effects thereof, if 
the same is executed or notarized by the Notary. In this respect, the Notary shall 
record in the Minutes that the content of the underlying instrument has been read 
out in the presence of the persons concerned, and that the latter have been 
acquainted with, and accepted, such contents.  
  
Article (8) Transactions of Persons with Special Needs  
1. If any person concerned is uneducated, the Notary shall have his / her thumbprint  
affixed to the instrument, and shall record the same in the Minutes.  
2. If any person concerned is afflicted with a disability that precludes the affixation of his / 
her signature or thumbprint, such a person shall designate any other person, whose 
identi ty shall be verified by the Notary based on his / her ID document, passport or the 
equivalent, to sign on behalf of the disabled person at the conclusion of the instrument, 
and the same shall be recorded in the Minutes.  
3. If the Notary is unfamiliar with the language of the persons concerned, he shall engage 
an interpreter - whose name is listed in the Ministry's Interpreter Roster – to interpret 
the matters required by the Notary in the presence of the persons concerned. Failing 
which, the concerned perso ns shall be required to engage an interpreter upon whom the 
Notary shall administer the oath. Such an interpreter shall sign at the conclusion of the 
Instrument, and the same shall be recorded in the Minutes.  
4. If any person concerned is afflicted with a disability that precludes his / her expression of 
his / her will in an ordinary manner, the Notary shall either engage any specialized  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  8 
 interpreter, if any, or designate any person to provide assistance in this respect at the 
request of the persons concerne d. The person so designated shall take the oath and sign 
at the conclusion of the instrument, and the same shall be recorded in the Minutes. In 
which case, the persons concerned shall pay the fees of the interpreter or assistant.  
5. If any concerned person  is afflicted with a mental disability, the curator appointed by the 
competent court shall sign on his behalf.  
  
Article (9) Register  
1. The Competent Department shall keep a register in which the instruments are to be 
recorded. The pages of such a registe r shall be numbered and arranged by date, and the 
Register shall be free of any erasure, removal, addition or breaks. If, however, the 
Register has any omission or typographical error, or where there is a need to make any 
correction, removal or addition, t he same shall take place in a paper or electronic format 
in the presence and under the signature of the persons concerned. In addition, the 
Notary shall sign the correction according to the procedures set forth in the Executive 
Regulations of this Decree L aw. 
2. The Register referred to in Clause [1] of this article shall have the probative force of 
evidence in respect of the data, information and instruments contained therein.  
  
Article (10) Execution of Minutes and Delivery of Certificates  
1. After the pe rsons concerned sign the Instrument, the Notary shall draw up, sign and 
stamp a Minutes at the conclusion of the Instrument, and shall then deliver the same to 
the persons concerned as described in the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  9 
 2. Certifica tes extracted from the Register may be delivered to the concerned persons so 
wishing, and may only be delivered to any third parties so requiring based on a written 
order of the Department Director.  
  
Article (11) Execution and Notarization of Affidavits  
1. The Public Notary shall verify the identity, capacity, eligibility and consent of the persons 
concerned before the affidavits are executed and notarized.  
2. The Public Notary shall execute and notarize the affidavits after administering the oath 
upon th e persons concerned, so that the oath shall only be administered for the purpose 
of verifying the affidavits required by the persons concerned to be notarized.  
3. The Private Notary may submit an application for administering the oath upon the 
persons conc erned and notarizing their affidavits, according to the conditions and 
procedures set forth in the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (12) Notarization of Signatures on Private Instruments  
The Notary shall notarize the signatures of the pe rsons concerned on the private 
instruments at their request, shall indicate such notarization in the register, and shall deliver 
certificates to the persons concerned based on such register, according to the executive 
regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (13) Establishment of Private Instrument's Date  
1. The Notary shall establish the date of private instruments by assigning serial numbers 
thereto in the Register, and shall draw up a Minutes at the conclusion of the Instrument  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  10 
 establishing the date of its submission and the number of being recorded in the Register. 
Such a private instrument shall be signed by, and stamped with the official seal of, the 
Notary and then delivered to the persons concerned, as described in the executive 
regulations of this Decree Law.  
2. Date establishment certificates may be delivered to the persons concerned based on the 
information extracted from Register, and may only be delivered to third parties based on 
a written order of the Department Director.  
  
Article (14) Wri t of Execution  
1. The Public Notary shall, at the request of the persons concerned, have the writ of 
execution affixed to the instruments executed or notarized by him according to the 
provisions of this Decree Law, and which contain obligations that are we ll-substantiated, 
of a specified value and due for performance, and only one copy thereof shall be 
delivered to the person concerned having an interest for enforcing the content thereof.  
2. A second copy of the underlying instrument to which the writ of  execution is affixed may 
only be delivered to the persons concerned based on a written order of the Department 
Director, in the event that the initial copy is lost or could not be used.  
  
Article (15) Notary's Obligations  
The Notary shall:  
1. Keep a regis ter for recording all the transactions that are executed or notarized by 
him;  
2. Keep in the register original copies of the instruments which are executed or  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  11 
 notarized or their dates are established by the Notary, or any other transaction 
carried by the N otary, arranged by date; and  
3. Keep a copy of any documents or paperwork relied upon by the Notary upon 
carrying out the underlying transaction according to the provisions of this Decree 
Law and its Executive Regulations.  
  
Article (16) Notary's Prohibiti ons  
The Notary shall be prohibited from:  
1. Approving the signatures of employees of the federal or local government, public 
authorities, public institutions or other government agencies affiliated to any of 
them, on the certificates, documents or other pa perwork signed by them ex officio ; 
2. Executing or notarizing the signatures or establishing the date of any instrument, if it 
is proven that the person concerned is lacking the eligibility or capacity or if his 
consent is not available, or where the subject of the underlying instrument is clearly 
invalid, involves violation of the applicable legislation, pub lic order or public morals, 
or is intended to circumvent any of the same. In which case, the Notary shall reveal 
the reasons behind the rejection, so that any person concerned may file a grievance 
with the Department Director against such rejection within seven [7] days of the 
date of being aware thereof, and the latter's decision shall be final;  
3. Executing or notarizing any instruments relating to the personal affairs of Muslims;  
4. Executing or notarizing any instruments relating to the creation, amendment of the 
provisions, or revocation, of endowment [waqf];  
5. Executing or notarizing any instruments relating to the creation, transfer, change or 
termination of any title to, or righ t in-rem over, any real property;  
6. Executing or notarizing any instruments whose execution or notarization falls within  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  12 
 the scope of competence of any other authority under the applicable legislation;  
7. Performing any action in respect of which the Nota ry or any of his ascendants or 
descendants, his spouse or their parents may have an apparent or hidden personal 
intertest, or accepting any of such persons as an interpreter or assistant;  
8. Disclosing to a third party any information relating to the perso ns concerned and 
which comes to his knowledge ex officio;  
9. Delivering any copy of any instrument to any person not a party to the underlying 
transaction without a written permission of the Department Director;  
10. Moving any register, instruments or othe r official papers that are kept in his custody 
outside the office, and the Public Prosecution may review the same at the place in 
which they are kept, and may request that the same be included in the file of any 
pending case based on a decision of the chie f justice of the competent court. In 
which case, a copy of the same shall be kept by the Notary after being attested by 
both the Notary and Chief Justice of the Competent Court;  
11. Moving to anywhere outside his office to carry out any transaction accordi ng to the 
provisions of this Decree Law, except for the cases described in the executive 
regulations of this Decree Law; or  
12. Combining his office and any other public or private job at the same time, other than 
the cases set forth in this Decree Law.  
  
Article (17) Legal Representation of the Persons Concerned  
The Persons Concerned, or their legal representatives, shall appear before the Notary in 
person.  
  
Article (18) Use of IT Means   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  13 
 The Notary may use IT means for carrying out all the transactions tha t fall within the scope 
of his competence under the provisions of this Decree Law, without necessarily requiring 
the personal appearance of the persons concerned or their representatives before the 
Notary.  
  
Article (19) Submission of Transaction via IT me ans 
The provisions of submitting the instruments, verifying the identity, registration, 
appearance, payment of fees and notification, which are contained herein, shall be duly 
performed if made, in part or in whole, using the IT means according to the appl icable 
legislation.  
  
Article (20) Issuance of Decisions via IT Means  
The Minister may issue the decisions regulating the use of IT means for carrying out the 
notarial services according to the provisions hereof.  
  
Article (21) Confidentiality of E -Registers  
Subject to the provisions of article [15] hereof, the registers shall be created and kept 
electronically, shall be deemed confidential, and may only be circulated, reviewed, copied or 
removed from the e -information system un der permission of the Department Director 
according to the provisions hereof.  
  
Article (22) Applicability of Information Security Regulations and Policies  
The information secu rity regulations and policies that are applicable in the State shall apply 
to the use of IT means described in this Decree Law and the decisions issued in 
implementation hereof.   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  14 
   
Article (23) Probative Force of E -Signature and E -Document  
The E -Signature a nd E -Document notarized in accordance with the provisions of this Decree 
Law shall have the same probative force of the authentic signature or instrument as 
provided for in the Law of Evidence in Civil and Commercial Transactions.  
  
Article (24) Public Not ary Appointment Requirements  
Whoever is appointed as a Public Notary shall satisfy the following requirements:  
1. To be a UAE national;  
2. To be of full legal capacity and medically fit;  
3. To be of good conduct and reputation, and has never been sentenced  by a court on 
the grounds of any felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or breach of 
trust, even if subsequently rehabilitated;  
4. To be holder of an academic degree in Law or Sharia and Law from a recognized 
university or higher institute in the  State, or an equivalent degree thereof;  
5. To successfully pass the procedures and tests prescribed by the Ministry; and  
6. To satisfy any other requirements described in the executive regulations of this 
Decree Law.  
  
Article (25) Public Notary Appointment Mechanism  
The Public Notary shall be appointed under a resolution of the Minister, and his place of 
work at the courts or elsewhere shall be determined by the Competent Department.  
  
Article (26) State Consuls' Performance of Pub lic Notary's Duties  
Outside the State, the Public Notaries' duties shall be performed by the authorized consuls  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  15 
 of the State or their corresponding officers of the diplomatic missions, according to the 
controls to be described in a cabinet resolution based  on the Minister's proposal.  
  
Article (27) Public Notary's Nature -of-work Allowance  
Based on a cabinet resolution, the Public Notary may be entitled to a nature of work 
allowance according to his professional grade.  
  
Article (28) Legislation of Human Resources in the Federal Government  
The legislation of human resources in the federal government, as well as the regulations 
governing the public office affairs, shall apply to whoever is appointed as a Public Notary.  
  
Article (29) Private Notary's License  
1. The Private Notary may only practice his duties in the State after being both licensed by 
the Committee and registered in the Roll, according to the provisions of this Decree Law 
and its Executive Regulations.  
2. The Competent De partment shall create a roster for the registration of Private Notaries, 
and the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall indicate the details of such roster 
and the procedures for registration therein.  
  
Article (30) Private Notary Licens ing Requirements  
The Private Notary shall satisfy the following requirements as a perquisite for getting 
licensed:  
a. To be a UAE national;  
b. To be of full legal capacity and medically fit;   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  16 
 c. To be of good conduct and reputation, and has never been sente nced by a court on 
the grounds of any felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or breach of 
trust, even if subsequently rehabilitated;  
d. To be holder of an academic degree in Law or Sharia and Law from a recognized 
university or higher institute in  the State, or an equivalent degree thereof;  
e. To have already engaged in the judicial or legal jobs described in the executive 
regulations of this Decree Law for a minimum period of three [3] years;  
f. To submit a valid insurance policy against professio nal liability, issued by an insurer 
duly licensed to operate in the State, in conformity with the controls determined by 
the Minister;  
g. His name must not have been removed from the Roster, unless three [3] years have 
lapsed following the issue date of th e decision or judgment;  
h. To successfully pass the procedures and tests prescribed by the Ministry; and  
i. To pay the prescribed fees; and  
j. To satisfy any other requirements set forth in the Executive Regulations of this 
Decree Law.  
  
Article (31) Lawye r's Performance of Private Notary's Duties  
The practicing lawyer may perform the duties of the Private Notary if the Lawyer concerned 
satisfies the requirements set forth in article [30] hereof.  
  
Article (32) Private Notary's Performance of Notarial Duties  
The Private Notary shall perform his notarial duties through a firm duly licensed for this 
purpose or through a licensed law firm, according to the controls and procedures set forth in 
the executive regulati ons of this Decree Law.   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  17 
   
Article (33) Composition of Private Notary Admission Committee  
The Minister shall issue a resolution composing a committee to be known as [Private Notary 
Admission Commit tee], comprising at least six [6] members, including the chairman and 
deputy chairman, in addition to the Notary Public. The resolution so issued shall determine 
the committee's terms of reference.  
  
Article (34) Private Notary Admission Committee's Functi ons  
1. The Committee shall perform the following functions:  
a. Consider and decide on the applications for the licensing and renewal of licensing of 
the Private Notary, applications of license revocation and abstention from 
performing Private Notary's duti es, as described in the executive regulations of this 
Decree Law;  
b. Consider and decide on the applications for transfer of the Private Notary from an 
office to another;  
c. Consider the acts committed by the Private Notary in violation of the provisions o f 
this Decree Law and its executive regulations, and which are referred thereto by the 
Competent Department;  
d. Consider the complaints filed against the Private Notary or its firm, and shall decide 
that the same be either disregarded or referred to the Pu blic Prosecution; and  
e. Perform any other functions assigned to the Committee under this Decree Law and 
its Executive Regulations.  
2. The Committee shall issue substantiated resolutions in the event that any of the 
applications referred to in Clause [1.A]  of this article is rejected.   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  18 
   
Article (35) Complaints against Private Notary  
1. The Competent Department shall keep the Private Notary notified of any complaint 
failed against him in order to respond thereto not later than fifteen [15] business days 
following the date of being notified.  
2. The Competent Department shall refer the complaint, together with the Private Notary's 
response thereto, to the Committee in order for the latter to decide that the same be 
either disregard or referred to the Public Pro secution for instituting and proceeding with 
the disciplinary case before the Disciplinary Board.  
  
Article (36) Composition of Private Notary Disciplinary Board  
1. The Minister shall issue a resolution composing a board to be known as ["Private Notary 
Disciplinary Board"], under the chairmanship of a chief justice of the Courts of Appeal, 
and having two judges of such courts as nominated by the Competent Judicial Bod y in 
which they work. The resolution so issued shall determine the board's terms of 
reference.  
2. The Disciplinary Board may designate an employee of the Court of Appeal to assume the 
secretarial duties of the board.  
  
Article (37) Initiation of Disciplina ry Action  
1. The disciplinary action shall be initiated by the Public Prosecution before the 
Disciplinary Board under a petition that contains the violations and supporting evidence.  
2. The Public Prosecution shall notify the Private Notary to appear before the Disciplinary  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  19 
 Board, at least ten [10] business days prior to the scheduled hearing date, and shall 
follow up on the disciplinary action until the same is decided on.  
3. The Discipl inary Board may conduct any necessary investigations, and may delegate any 
of its members to perform the same.  
4. The Disciplinary Board may proceed with the disciplinary action in the event that the 
Private Notary concerned fails to attend the Disciplinar y Board's hearings without any 
acceptable excuse.  
5. The Disciplinary Board may temporarily suspend the Private Notary from performing his 
duties until the trial is completed.  
  
Article (38) Disciplinary Board's Hearings and Challenging its Judgments  
1. The Disciplinary Board's hearings and deliberations shall take place behind closed doors.  
2. The Private Notary shall appear in person before the Disciplinary Board, and may submit 
his defense in writing or engage a lawyer.  
3. If the Private Notary fails to appear before the Disciplinary Board, ab absentia judgment 
may be rendered against him after verifying that the Private Notary has been duly 
served.  
4. The Disciplinary Board shall issue its decisions by majority based on the ir supporting 
grounds, and the decision so issued shall be served upon the Private Notary within ten 
[10] days following its date of issue.  
5. The Public Prosecution and Private Notary may each challenge the judgment rendered 
by the Disciplinary Board befo re the competent court of appeal within thirty [30] days  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  20 
 following its date of issue in respect of the judgment rendered in presence of the Private 
Notary, and following the date of being served upon the Private Notary if issued in 
absentia.  
6. The Private  Notary shall not suffer any harm on the grounds of his appeal against the 
judgment issued by the Disciplinary Board.  
  
Article (39) Adjudication on the Disciplinary Action  
The judgment rendered in respect of the disciplinary action shall include the groun ds relied 
upon, and such grounds shall be read out when the judgment is being announced at a 
closed -door hearing.  
  
Article (40) Disciplinary Penalties to be Imposed on Private Notary  
1. Any disciplinary penalty may only be imposed on the Private Notary ba sed on a decision 
of the Disciplinary Board, after a written investigation is conducted and the Private 
Notary's statements are heard according to the provisions of this Decree Law.  
2. The disciplinary penalties to be imposed on the Private Notary shall be  as follows:  
a. Warning;  
b. License suspension for not more than six [6] months; or  
c. License revocation and irrevocable removal of the Private Notary's name from the 
Roster.  
3. The penalties imposed on the Notary Public shall be without prejudice to the civil or 
criminal accountability, if necessary.  
   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  21 
 General Provisions  
Article (41) Taking the Legal Oath  
1. The Notary may only perform his duties after the legal oath is taken.  
2. The Notary shall take the following oath before the Minister: ["I swear by Almighty God 
that I will perform my work with full accuracy, honesty and Faithfulness, and that I will 
safeguard the confidentiality of my job secrets"].  
3. An oath -taking minutes s hall be drawn up and kept in the Notary's file with the 
Competent Department.  
  
Article (42) Competent Department's Supervision of Notary's Work  
The Competent Department shall supervise, and conduct administrative and technical 
inspection on, the Notary's work, as described in the executive regulations of this Decree 
Law.  
  
Article (43) Obtaining Copies of the Instruments kept in The Notary's Files  
The Persons Concerned may obtain a copy of any paper o f their own instruments kept in the 
Notary's files or recorded in the Register, as described in the executive regulation of this 
Decree Law.  
  
Article (44) Instrument Correction  
1. Any typographical or arithmetic errors in the instrument, which are committ ed in the 
course of the Notary's performance of his duties, shall not affect the validity of the same. 
In which case, however, the Notary shall correct any such error.   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  22 
 2. If any error is committed by the persons concerned in relation to any of the informat ion 
and data recorded in the instrument, the Notary may, at their request, correct the same.  
3. The executive regulations of this Decree Law shall determine the controls and 
procedures for implementing this article.  
  
Article (45) Official Seals and Writ of Execution Seals  
The Ministry shall approve the official seals of the Notary, as well as the seals of the writs of 
execution for the transactions carried out by him, according to the provisions set forth in the 
executive regulati ons of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (46) Arrest and Investigation  
The Notary may undergo arrest and investigation, and his office may be inspected in relation 
to matters associated with his notarial duties, only based on an order of the Public 
Prosecution.  
  
Article (47) Notary Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct  
The Minister shall issue a code that outlin es the ethical principles for the notary professions, 
as well as the guidelines and controls to be observed by the Notary. Violation of any 
provision of the Code shall entail proportional disciplinary penalties.  
  
Crimes and Penalties  
Article (48) Penalty for Performing Notarial Duties without License   
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  23 
 Whoever performs the professional duties of a notary without holding a relevant license 
shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a period of not less than six [6] months and / or a 
fine of not less than AED [30, 000] thirty thousand dirhams and not exceeding one hundred 
thousand dirhams [AED 100,000].  
  
Article (49) Penalty for Disclosure of Work Secrets  
Any Notary who discloses any secret that comes to his knowledge ex off icio shall be 
sentenced to imprisonment for a period of not less than six [6] months and / or a fine of not 
less than AED [30,000] thirty thousand dirhams and not exceeding one hundred thousand 
dirhams [AED 100,000].  
  
Article (50) Imposing Harsher Penalty  Prescribed by Other Law  
Imposing the penalties set forth herein shall be without prejudice to harsher penalty 
provided for in any other law.  
  
Article (51) Capacity of Judicial Officers  
Employees of the Competent Department, who are named in a resolution of the Minister, 
shall, within their respective areas of competence, have the capacity of judicial officers in 
respect of the crimes committed in violation of the provisions of this decree law and its 
executive regulations as well as the decisions issued i n implementation hereof.  
  
Article (52) Administrative Penalty Regulations  
The Cabinet shall issue administrative penalty regulations based upon the Minister's  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  24 
 proposal in respect of the acts committed in violation of the provisions of this Decree Law 
and its Executive Regulations.  
  
Article (53) Government Bodies' Exemption from Fees  
Federal and local government bodies shall be exempted from the fees in respect of all 
transactions carried out by the Notary.  
  
Article (54) Fees  
The Cabinet shall, based upon the Minister's proposal and presentation of the Minister of 
Finance, issue a resolution determining the fees of transactions carried out by the Public 
Notary and the fees of the Private Notary.  
  
Article (55) The Executive Reg ulations  
The Cabinet shall, based upon the Minister's proposal, issue the Executive Regulations of 
this Decree Law, within six [6] months following the date of being published in the official 
gazette.  
  
Article (56) The Executive Resolutions  
The Minister s hall issue the resolutions required for implementing the provisions of this 
Decree Law and its Executive Regulations.  
  
Article (57) Repeals  
1. The Federal Law No. [4] of 2013 Regulating the Notary Profession, as amended, as well  
Federal Decree - Law Regulating the Notary Profession  25 
 as any provision that goes against or conflicts with the provisions hereof, shall all be 
repealed.  
2. The Executive Regulations and resolutions that are in force when thi s Decree Law is 
issued shall continue in full force and effect insofar as they do not conflict with the 
provisions hereof, until the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law and decisions 
issued in implementation hereof are issued.  
  
Article (58) Publicati on & Entry into Force  
This Decree Law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force three 
[3] months following the date of its publication.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohamed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
Issued by us in the Presidential Palace, Abu Dhabi  
On: 30 Safar, 1444 AH  
Corresponding to: 26 September, 2022  