 
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  1 
 Federal Decree- Law No. (9) of 2022  
On Domestic Workers 
 
We Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan,              President of the United Arab Emirates , 
− After perusal of the UAE's Constitution;  
−  Federal Law No. (1) of 1972  regarding the competencies of ministries and the powers of 
ministers as amended;  
−  Federal Law No. (35) of 1992  promulgating the Code of Criminal Procedure as 
amended;  
−  Federal Law No. (10) of 2017  on d omestic workers;  
−  Federal Decree- Law No. (29) of 2021 regarding the entry and residence of foreigners;  
−  Federal Decree- Law No. (31) of 2021 promulgating the Crimes and Penalties Law;  
−  Federal Decree- Law No. (33) of 2021 regulating labour relations;  
− And based on what was presented by the Minister of Human Resources and 
Emiratisation and the approval of the Council of Ministers;  
We issued the following decree -law:  
  
Article (1) 
Definitions  
In applying the provisions of this Decree -Law, the following words and expressions shall 
have the meanings assigne d to each of them, unless the context requires otherwise:  
 State  : Means the United Arab Emirates.  
 Ministry  : Means the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation.  
 Minister  : Means the Minister of Human Resources and Emiratisation.  
 Domestic 
Work  : Means the service rendered by the Worker to the Employer or 
their Family at the Workplace in accordance with the provisions 
of this Decree -Law.  
 Worker  : Means a natural person authorized by the Ministry to perform a  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  2 
 Domestic Work for a  fee, under the management, supervision 
and direction of the Employer or the Beneficiary, as the case may 
be. 
 Employer  : Means every natural person or Recruitment Agency hiring a 
Worker to perform a Domestic Work.  
 Family  : Means the person with whom the Employer is related by kinship 
or intermarriage relationship or takes care of them in accordance 
with the legislation in force in the State.  
 Workplace  : Means the place designated for permanent or temporary 
residence for t he Employer, their Family, the Beneficiary of the 
service, or their Family, including private farms and the like.  
 Recruitment 
Agency  : Means the agency licensed in accordance with the provisions of 
this Decree -Law (whether it has a physical headquarters  or 
digital channels), to mediate for the recruitment of Workers or 
for the Temporary Employment of Workers.  
 Direct 
Recruitment  : Means the case when the Recruitment Agency, based on the will 
and knowledge of the Employer, brings in a Worker specified b y 
name from outside the list of Workers registered with the 
Recruitment Agency.  
 Temporary 
Employment  : Means a system whereby the Worke r Recruitment Agency 
employs its Domestic Workers with the intention of making 
them available to a third party (the Beneficiary) to perform a 
work subject to the provisions of this Decree -Law, and the 
performance of such work is under the supervision and 
management of the Beneficiary.  
 Mediation  : Means a service provided by the Recruitment Agency to the 
Employer to bring the Worker to be registered on the Employer's 
file and without the agency becoming a party to the work 
relationship that may arise as a  result of this mediation.  
 Beneficiary  : Means every natural person who employs a Worker to work for  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  3 
 them and under their management, supervision and direction 
according to the Temporary Employment system, whether for a 
specific period of time or to per form a specific task/service.  
 Employment 
Agreement  : Means every fixed -term agreement concluded between the 
Employer and the Worker that defines the rights and obligations 
of both parties according to the Form approved by the Ministry.  
 Probation 
Perio d  : Means the period required by the Employer on the Worker, 
which enables the Employer to evaluate the performance of the 
Worker and enables the Worker to become familiar with their 
job duties and see the work environment, according to which the 
Employme nt Agreement can be continued or terminated in 
accordance with the provisions of this Decree -Law, its 
implementing regulations and the decisions issued in 
implementation of them.  
 Basic Wage  : Means the Wage stipulated in the Employment Agreement and 
given to the Worker in return for their work under the 
Employment Agreement, and no other allowances or benefits in 
kind are included in it.  
 Wage  : Means the Basic Wage plus all allowances, bonus es and any 
other benefits stipulated in the Employment Agreement - if any.  
  
Article (2) 
Objectives  
This Decree -Law aims to:  
1. Regulate work relations with Workers and determine the responsibilities of the  parties to 
the relationship in a way that guarantees their rights and obligations in a balanced 
manner.  
2. Provide a suitable work environment for Workers in accordance with the legislation and 
international agreements in force in the State.  
   
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  4 
 Article (3) 
Scope of Application  
1. The provisions of this Decree -Law shall apply to the Recruitment and Employment of 
Workers whose occupations are set out in the Executive Regulations of this Decree -Law.  
2. The Minister may amend the professions stipulated in  Clause (1) of this article in 
accordance with the needs and requirements of the labour market in the State.  
3. In the event that the Worker travels with the Employer or their Family abroad, the two 
parties to the Employment Agreement made in accordance with this Decree -Law shall be 
bound by the provisions contained therein unless the law of the foreign country requires 
otherwise.  
  
Article (4) 
Licensing of Recruitment Agencies  
1. It is prohibited to engage in Recruitment or Temporary Employment of Workers without obtaining a licence from the Ministry, in accordance with the conditions 
specified in the Executive Regulations of this Decree -Law and the decisions issued by 
the Ministry . 
2. It is not permissible to recruit or employ a Worker except in accordance with the 
conditions and procedures stipulated in this Decree -Law and its Executive Regulations 
and the decisions issued by the Ministry and any legislation in force in the State in this 
field and with observance of the legal conditions necessary for licensing each 
profession - if any . 
3. It is prohibited to recruit or employ a Worker whose age is less than (18) eighteen Gregorian years.  
4. In the event of the Recruitment of Worker s or their Temporary Employment it is 
prohibited to:  
a. Discriminate among Workers on the basis of race, colour, gender, national origin, social origin, or disability, impairing equal opportunities or prejudice equality in 
obtaining or continuing a job and  enjoying its rights.  
b. Practise verbal or physical sexual harassment against the Worker.   
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  5 
 c. Practise forced labour or do any action that falls within the framework of human 
trafficking, in accordance with the laws issued, or the agreements ratified by the 
State.  
5. Employ Workers in jobs to which the provisions of this Decree -Law do not apply, except 
after obtaining the approval of the Ministry.  
a. The Minister shall issue a decision specifying the necessary controls for the work of 
Recruitment Agencies for Workers and the conditions that must be met by the Employer to allow them to recruit and employ Workers subject to the provisions of 
this Decree -Law. The Minister shall also issue the rules, procedures and Forms to be 
used by such Agencies.  
  
Article (5) 
Obligations of Recruitment Agencies  
The Recruitment Agencies must abide by the following:  
1. They may not bring a Worker from the Worker's count ry without informing them of the 
type and nature of work, the amount of wages and obtaining proof of the Worker's 
physical capabilities, adequate health and psychological and professional preparedness, 
and meeting other conditions determined by the Executive Regulations of this 
Decree- Law and the decisions issued by the Ministry, provided that the nature of each 
profession is taken into account.  
2. They shall not demand, by itself or through third parties, or accept from any Worker, 
whether before or afte r starting work, any commission in return for obtaining the work 
or charging them any expenses.  
3. They shall conduct the necessary medical examinations for the Worker within a period not exceeding (30) thirty days at most prior to their entry into the State.  
4. They shall familiarize the Worker with the customs and traditions of the society in the State.  
5. They shall secure adequate housing and subsistence for Workers (whether registered 
with the Agency or mediated by the Agency to recruit them for a period of  time before 
moving to work or those who were returned to the Agency for any reason) subject to the  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  6 
 rules and regulations regulating labour accommodation in the State and according to 
any other requirements set by the Ministry.  
6. They shall treat the Wo rker in a good way and protect them against violence.  
7. They shall raise the Worker's awareness about the authorities competent to consider their complaints regarding any violation of their rights and freedoms.  
8. They shall hand over to the Employer a booklet of Wage receipts or any other mechanism to ensure that the Worker receives their Wages in accordance with the mechanisms and channels specified by the Ministry.  
9. They shall bear the expenses of returning the Worker to the Worker's country and  
providing a substitute for them or refunding the amounts paid to the Employer in 
accordance with the decisions issued by the Ministry.  
10. They shall commit to any additional obligations imposed on the Recruitment Agencies 
towards Workers, Employers, the Ministry and employment agencies outside the State in 
accordance with the cases specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree -Law and 
the decisions issued by the Ministry.  
  
Article (6) 
Domestic Labour Recruitment Contract  
1. A contract shall be made in accordance with the Form approved by the Ministry between the Recruitment Agency and the Employer to regulate the obligations relating to the 
recruitment of the Worker, provided that such contract includes in particular the 
following:  
a. The conditions set by the Employer to be met by the Worker recruited by the 
Recruitment Agency.  
b. The basic rights and obligations of the Employer to wards the Worker, especially 
the type of work and the amount of remuneration.  
c. The financial obligations necessary for the transfer of the Worker from the 
Worker's country to the State and in exchange for the services due to Recruitment 
Agency. After obt aining the approval of the Council of Ministers, the Minister may 
issue the system of controls and fees for the services provided by the Recruitment  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  7 
 Agency.  
d. The specified period for the implementation of the recruitment procedures.  
2. If the Worker Recruitment Agency violates the conditions agreed upon in the contract 
stipulated in Clause 1 of this article, then the Employer shall have the right to refuse to employ the Worker recruited. In this case, the provisions stipulated in the Executive 
Regulatio ns of this Decree -Law and any relevant decisions issued by the Ministry 
regarding the provision of an alternative Worker or refunding the recruitment fees to the 
Employer shall apply without prejudice to the right of the Employer to claim 
compensation from  the Recruitment Agency for any damage they may sustain due to 
breach of the contract.  
  
Article (7) 
Employment Agreement  
1. The Employer must conclude an Employment Agreement with the Worker in accordance 
with the Form and mechanisms appr oved by the Ministry in this regard and deliver a 
copy thereof to the Worker.  
2. The Employment Agreement shall include the names of its parties, the Workplace, the 
date of execution, the date and type of work, the date of commencement, the term of the 
Agreement, the amount of the Wage, the Basic Wage, the method of payment of the 
Wage, the permitted leaves for the Worker, the Probationary Period, if any, the rest 
periods, and the cases that may result in the termination of the contract, in addition to 
any other conditions required by the nature of Work and included in the contract Form 
approved by the Ministry.  
3. The Employment Agreement's term shall be a limited period namely two years, and may be renewed for the same period. If the two parties contin ue to implement it after the 
expiry of its original term, the original contract shall be considered implicitly extended with the same conditions contained therein, including the term condition. With the consent of both parties, the Employment Agreement may  be terminated before the 
expiry of its term.  
   
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  8 
 Article (8) 
Probation Period  
The Employer may appoint the Worker under a Probation Period not exceeding (6) six 
months from the date of commencement.  
  
Article (9) 
Working Hours and Weekly Rest  
1. The Worker shall have be entitled to a paid weekly rest day in accordance with what is specified in the Executive Regulations of this Decree -Law. They may be required to work 
on a weekly rest day, in which case they shall be entitled to an alternative day of rest or 
payment of the equivalent of a day's Wage.  
2. The executive decisions issued by the Ministry shall regulate the working and rest times 
so that the daily rest for the Worker is not less than (12) twelve hours per day, of which 
(8) eight must be  consecutive.  
  
Article (10)  
Leaves  
1. The Worker shall be entitled to an annual leave of no less than (30) thirty days for each year. It shall be paid before it is taken, and if the service period is less than a year and 
more than (6) six months, then the  Worker shall be entitled to a two -day leave for each 
month of service. The Employer may set the date of the annual leave, and, when 
necessary, may divide it into a maximum of two periods.  
2. If the working conditions require that the Worker works during all or part of their annual 
leave and the period of leave during which they worked is not carried over to the 
following year, then the Employer must pay them their Wages in addition to a leave 
allowance equal to their Wages for the days they worked during that period. In all cases, 
the Worker may not be required to work during their annual leave for more than once in 
two consecutive years.  
3. In calculating the annual leave period, the legally p rescribed vacation days are included  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  9 
 if the annual leave enjoyed by the Worker is interrupted, and shall be considered a part 
of it.  
4. If the Worker wishes to travel to their country to take their annual leave then the Employer shall bear the price of the ir return ticket once for every two years. If the two 
parties agree to terminate or not renew the Employment Agreement after the annual 
leave, then the Employer shall bear their one -way ticket.  
5. If the Employment Agreement expires or is terminated by one  of its parties without the 
Worker having obtained their annual leave, then the Worker shall be entitled to a cash 
compensation equal to their Wages for the number of leave days due to them. Such 
allowance is calculated according to the last Wage received by the Worker.  
6. The Worker is entitled to a sick leave for a period not exceeding (30) thirty days in each contractual year. The Worker shall take such leave, whether consecutive or not, 
whenever their need for it is proven by a medical report issued by a health authority 
approved by the State.  
It is calculated as follows:  
a. The first (15) fifteen days shall be paid.  
b. The following (15) fifteen days shall be half -paid.  
7. If the illness resulted from the misconduct of the Worker, then they shall not be  entitled 
to any paid or half -paid sick leaves.  
  
Article (11)  
Employer's Obligations  
The Employer shall abide by the obligations contained in the Employment Agreement in 
addition to the following:  
The Employer shall:  
1. Provide the Worker with all they need to perform the work agreed upon.  
2. Provide suitable accommodation for the Worker.  
3. Provide the Worker with meals and appropriate clothes to perform the Work as long as they work on a full- time basis and not on a temporary basis unless agreed otherwise.  
4. Pay the Wage of the Worker in accordance with the Employment Agreement, the  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  10 
 provisions of this Decree -Law, and the decisions issued by the Ministry.  
5. Bear the costs of the medical treatment for the Worker in accordance with the health 
system in force in the State or provide health insurance in accordance with the 
legislation in force in the State.  
6. Treat the Worker in a good manner that preserves their dignity and the safety of their 
body.  
7. Refrain from requiring the Worker to work for others except in accordance with the 
terms and conditions stipulated in the Executive Regulations of this Decree -Law and the 
decisions issued by the Ministry.  
8. Refrain from employing any Worker unless such Worker is licensed to work in 
accordance with the provisions of this Decree -Law, its implementing regulations and 
decisions issued by the Ministry.  
9. Pay the necessary compensation resulting from work injuries and occupational diseases 
in accordance wit h the compensations stipulated in the provisions of the 
aforementioned Decree -Law No. (33) of 2021 regarding the regulation of labour 
relations and the decisions issued in implementation t hereof. Such obligation shall not 
be forfeited by the Employer unless the concerned insurance company pays the 
compensation stipulated in this Clause.  
10. Refrain from employing the Worker in a profession different from the nature of their 
work except w ith their consent and provided that it is one of the professions mentioned 
in the Executive Regulations of this Decree -Law.  
11. Ensure the right of the Worker to keep their own identification documents.  
12. Pay the heirs of the Worker, who died during service, the Wage for the month in which such Worker died plus any other entitlements to the Worker.  
13. Refrain from receiving, directly or indirectly, any amounts or prices from the Worker, 
unless the same is stipulated in this Decree -Law, its Executive Regulations, decisions 
issued by the Ministry, or in the contract Form approved by the Ministry.  
14. Notify the Ministry of any violation by the Worke r of what is imposed by the legislation 
in force. In this case the Employer must abide by what the Ministry decides in this regard.  
15. Bear the expenses of returning the Worker to their country in accordance with the  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  11 
 provisions of this Decree -Law and its Executive Regulations.  
16. Commit to any other obligations stated in this Decree -Law or decided by its Executive 
Regulations or decisions issued by the Ministry.  
  
Article (12)  
Worker's Obligations 
The Worker shall abide by the obligations contained in the Employment Agreement in 
addition to the following:  
The Worker shall:  
1. Perform the work by themselves according to the direction and supervision of the 
Employer and in accordance with the provis ions of the Employment Agreement, and in 
performing it they should exercise the necessary care and not stop working without an 
acceptable excuse.  
2. Observe the customs and traditions of society and adhere to public morals.  
3. Comply with the Employer' s instructions regarding the implementation of the agreed 
work, unless these instructions contradict the contract, law, public order, public morals, 
or expose the Worker to danger or legal accountability.  
4. Preserve the Employer's property, work tools, and all that is in their custody or at their 
disposal, fully take care of them, and take all necessary measures to preserve them and 
their safety.  
5. Respect the privacy of the Workplace and not disclose secrets that are known to them by 
virtue of their work, even after its completion.  
6. Refrain from using work tools outside the Workplace without the approval of the 
Employer. They shall keep such tools in the places designated for them.  
7. Provide the necessar y aid and assistance in cases of disasters and dangers that threaten 
the Workplace or the safety of those inside it.  
8. Refrain from working under any form except under a work permit issued to them by the 
Ministry and in accordance with the terms of such  permit.  
9. Commit to any other obligations stated in this Decree -Law or decided by its 
Executive Regulations or decisions issued by the Ministry.   
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  12 
 Article (13)  
Occupational Care and Safety  
The Employer and the Worker shall abide by the approved occupatio nal health and safety 
requirements and health prevention methods as stipulated in the Executive Regulations of 
this Decree- Law and any other legislation in force in the State.  
  
Article (14)  
Temporary Recruitment  
1. In the case of Temporary Employment, the Recruitment Agency shall be the Employer, without prejudice to the obligations of the Worker towards the natural person or their 
Family benefiting from the service. The Executive Regulations of this Decree -Law shall  
regulate the terms of Temporary Employment.  
2. The provisions of this Decree -Law shall apply to Recruitment Agency Workers who work 
under the Temporary Employment system for the Beneficiary in terms of regulating their 
relationship with the Beneficiary.  
  
Article (15)  
Wage  
1. The monthly Wage shall be paid in UAE dirhams within a period not exceeding (10) ten 
days from its due date. The Ministry may set the system it deems most appropriate for 
the manner and guarantee of payment of Wages.  
2. The Worker shall be entitled to Wages from the date of their entry into the State or from 
the date of their status adjustment. The payment of the Wage shall be evidenced by a 
written receipt or any other means of proof decided by the Ministry.  
  
Article (16)  
Pay Deductions 
1. If the Worker commits an act resulting from their grave mistake or violation of 
instructions that results in harm to the Employer by losing or destroying tools, machines,  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  13 
 products or materials owned by the latter, or what is in the  custody of the Worker or at 
their disposal, then the Employer, either with the consent of the Worker or with the 
approval of the Ministry if the Worker does not agree, shall deduct from the Wage an 
amount not exceeding a quarter of what is necessary to re dress the damage as estimated 
by the Ministry. If neither of the two parties agrees to what the Ministry decides, the 
dispute shall be referred to the court.  
2. Deductions from the Wages of the Worker shall be deducted from the Wages necessary 
for the pa yment of debts in implementation of a judicial ruling, provided that it does not 
exceed a quarter of such Wage.  
  
Article (17)  
Wage Suspension  
1. A Worker who is in pretrial detention shall have their Wages suspended for the duration of such detention.  
2. If the criminal case is filed on the basis of a notification from the Employer and the criminal investigation does not result in trial or a final judgment is issued acquitting the 
Worker, then the Worker shall be paid their Wages for the period of det ention, and in the 
event of conviction they shall be deprived of their Wage.  
3. If the criminal case is filed on the basis of a notification from a person other than the Employer, and the Worker is eventually convicted, then the suspended Wage shall not be 
paid. However, if the criminal investigation does not result in trial or the Worker is acquitted, then the informant is obliged to pay the Wages, unless the Worker agrees with 
the informant to waive the Wages.  
  
Article (18)  
Leaving Work  
1. The Execut ive Regulations of this Decree -Law and the decisions issued by the Ministry 
shall determine the cases in which a Worker may leave work.  
2. The Employer must notify the Ministry within (5) five days of the absence of the Worker 
from work without a legitim ate reason.   
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  14 
 3. The Worker must also notify the Ministry within two (2) days of leaving work without 
the knowledge of the Employer.  
  
Article (19)  
End of Employment Agreement  
1. The Employment Agreement ends in one of the following cases:  
a. Expiry of its term unless renewed in accordance with the provisions of this Decree -Law 
and its Executive Regulations.  
b. The death of the Worker or their disability during and because of work. The disability is established and its percentage is determined b y a report from a specialized medical 
commission. The Employer shall bear the costs of returning the incapacitated Worker or the body of the deceased Worker to the Worker's country.  
c. Death of the Employer; the Employment Agreement may continue to the end  of its 
term in case of agreement between the Family and the Worker.  
d. The Worker is convicted in a felony or sentenced to a freedom -restricting penalty in a 
felony or misdemeanour.  
e. The agreement of the parties to terminate the Employment Agreement.  
f. The Worker's exhaustion of their sick leaves or their lack of physical ability to perform 
work.  
g. The absence of the Worker from work without an acceptable excuse during the 
contractual year for a period of (10) ten consecutive days or (15) fifteen non - 
consecutive days.  
h. Evidence of a breach by one of the parties to the Employment Agreement of the 
obligations prescribed by law or agreement. In this case, the provisions of article (20) 
of this Decree -Law shall apply.  
2. The Employer shall pay all the Wo rker's financial entitlements within (10) ten days from 
the date of the Employment Agreement's expiry, according to the cases and in the manner specified by the Executive Regulations.  
  
  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  15 
 Article (20)  
Termination of Employment Agreement  
1. Either party to the Employment Agreement may terminate it unilaterally if the other 
party breaches its obligations specified in articles (11) and (12) of this Decree -Law.  
2. If the Employment Agreement is terminated by the Employer for a reason not attributed to the Worker, then the Employer shall be required to provide a ticket for the Worker's 
return to the Worker's country, and the Employer shall also pay any other dues to the 
Worker owed by the Employer.  
a. If the Employment Agreement is terminated by the Worker after the Probationary 
Period and for a reason attributed to the Worker, then the obligations shall be as 
specified in the following cases:  
b. In the case of Direct Recruitment, the Worker shall bear the cost of returning the 
Worker to the Worker's country and any other dues to the Employer that are owed 
by the Worker. In the event that the Worker is unable to bear the cost of returning to 
the Worker's country, the Employer shall bear such cost.  
c. If the Worker is recruited through a Recruitment Agency, then the provisions of 
article (5) of this Decree -Law shall apply.  
  
Article (21)  
Worker Transfer  
1. The Worker shall have the right to transfer to a new Employer, provided that all contractual requirements contained in the Employment  Agreement are fulfilled, taking 
into account the rights of the original Employer, and in accordance with the conditions and procedures issued by a decision of the Minister.  
2. The Employer shall not be bound by the expenses of returning the Worker to th e 
Worker's country if the Worker joins another job in accordance with the provisions of this Decree- Law, its implementing regulations and decisions issued by the Ministry.  
  
  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  16 
 Article (22)  
End -of-Service Gratuity  
Based on the Minister's proposal, the Council of Ministers may approve the systems and 
mechanisms for calculating and paying the end -of-service gratuity for Workers.  
  
Article (23)  
Settlement of Disputes and Complaints  
1. Should a dispute arise between the  Employer and the Worker and they fail to settle it 
amicably, they shall refer it to the Ministry. In this case, the Ministry shall have the right 
to take the following measures:  
a. The Ministry shall take the measures it deems appropriate to settle the dispute amicably in accordance with the procedures stipulated in the Executive Regulations 
of this Decree -Law and the decisions issued by the Ministry.  
b. In the event that an amicable settlement is not reached within the period specified in the Executive Regulations of this Decree -Law, the Ministry shall refer the dispute to 
the competent court. The referral shall be accompanied by a memorandum 
containing a summary of the dispute, the arguments of the two parties, and the 
Ministry's recommendations.  
2. The M inistry shall have jurisdiction to consider complaints submitted by Employers 
and Recruitment Agencies.  
To this end, it may take the following actions:  
a. The Ministry shall take the measures it deems appropriate for reaching an amicable settlement between the two parties in accordance with the provisions of this Decree- Law, its Executive Regulations and the decisions issued by the Ministry.  
b. If such amica ble settlement is not reached within two weeks from the date of 
submitting the complaint, then it will be referred to the competent court.  
3. In the event of a dispute arises between the Worker and the Worker Recruitment Agency, the provisions stipulated in Paragraph (1) of this rticle shall apply to such 
dispute.  
4. A lawsuit filed before the competent court by any of the parties to the Employment  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  17 
 Agreement shall not be accepted unless the procedures stipulated in this Decree -Law 
and its Executive Regulat ions are observed.  
5. Upon examining the disputes and complaints referred to in this article, if the Ministry 
discovers any violations of the provisions of this Decree -Law or its Executive 
Regulations, the Ministry shall take measures to hold to account an y violators and 
impose on them the penalty stipulated in this Decree -Law, its Executive Regulations 
and related legislation in accordance with the mechanisms to be determined by a decision from the Minister.  
6. Subject to the provisions of this article, th e Ministry shall have the right, during the 
consideration of the dispute or complaint, and in accordance with the mechanisms it 
specified, to require the concerned Recruitment Agency to fulfill any obligations 
assigned to the Recruitment Agency under the p rovisions of this Decree -Law, its 
Executive Regulations, or the Employment Agreement, whether towards the Worker, the Employer or the Beneficiary, as the case may be.  
  
Article (24)  
Inspection  
1. The Ministry's officials designated by a decision of the Min ister of Justice, in agreement 
with the Minister, shall have the capacity of judicial officers in proving actions that violate 
the provisions of this Decree -Law and its Executive Regulations and the decisions issued 
in implementation of them.  
To this end, they may perform the following tasks:  
a. Monitor the implementation of the provisions of this Decree -Law, its Executive 
Regulations and the decisions issued in implementation thereof.  
b. Hold to account any violators of the provisions of this Decree -Law, its Executive 
Regulations, and the decisions issued in implementation thereof.  
c. Inspect Recruitment Agencies.  
d. Inspect Workplaces and residence of Workers, including those of Workers p rovided 
by Recruitment Agency.  
2. Inspectors may not enter the residence of the Employer's Family except with the  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  18 
 permission of their owners or the permission of the Public Prosecution, in any of the 
following two cases:  
a. A complaint is filed by the Work er or the Employer.  
b. Reasonable evidence of violations of the provisions of this Decree -Law and its 
Executive Regulations and the decisions issued in implementation thereof is found.  
3. Shall be excluded from the provisions of article (2) of this article  the Workers' places of 
residence and Workplaces, such as farms, manors, and the like, which are not considered a home for the Employer and their Family.  
  
Article (25)  
Administrative Violations and Penalties  
1. The Executive Regulation of this Decree -Law shall determine the administrative 
penalties for acts that violate the provisions of this Decree -Law, its Executive Regulations 
and the decisions issued in implementation thereof.  
2. The Executive Regulation of this Decree -Law and the decisions issued by the Ministry 
shall determine the cases in which certain administrative measures may be taken against the Employer, the Worker, or Recruitment Agency to obligate them to comply with the provisions of this Decree -Law.  
  
Article (26)  
Lawsuits  
1. The State courts shall have jurisdiction to consider disputes and lawsuits brought for violation of the provisions of this Decree -Law and its Executive Regulations and the 
decisions issued in implementation thereof.  
2. Lawsuits for any of the rights arising under the provisions of this Decree -Law shall not be 
heard after the lapse of (3) three months from the date of termination of the Work 
relationship.  
3. Lawsuits filed by Workers in accordance with the provisions of this Decree -Law shall 
be exempt ed from all judicial fees at all stages of litigation, and their consideration shall 
be urgent.   
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  19 
 Article (27)  
Penalties  
1. The application of the penalties stipulated in this Decree -Law shall not prejudice any 
severer penalty stipulated in any other law.  
2. Shall be imprisoned for a period not exceeding (6) months and/or charged a fine of no 
less than (20,000) Twenty Thousand Dirhams and no more than (100,000) One 
Hundred Thousand Dirhams any person who:  
a. Provides incorrect information or documents wit h the intention of recruiting a 
Worker to the State to work in it.  
b. Obstructs or prevents an official assigned to enforce the provisions of this 
Decree- Law and its Executive Regulations and the decisions issued in 
implementation thereof, or attempts or s tarts to prevent such official from 
performing their job, whether by using force, violence or threatening to use the same.  
c. Divulges a work secret that they had come to know by virtue of their work as a 
public servant charged with enforcing the provision s of this Decree- Law and its 
Executive Regulations and the decisions issued to implement them, even after leaving such job.  
3. Shall be fined an amount of not less than (50,000) Fifty Thousand Dirhams and not 
exceeding (200,000) Two Hundred Thousand Dirh ams any person who:  
a. Hires a Worker who is not authorized to work for them.  
b. Recruits or hires a Worker then leaves them without work.  
c. Uses work permits for Workers for purposes other than those for which they are 
issued.  
d. Closes or ends the business of a Worker Recruitment Agency without taking the 
procedures for settling the Workers' rights in violation of the provisions of this 
Decree- Law, its Executive Regulations and the decisions issued in 
implementation of them.  
e. Recruits a Worker under the age of (18) eighteen Gregorian years in violation of 
the provisions hereof.   
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  20 
 f. Facilitates the abandonment by a Worker of such Worker's work or provides 
them with shelter for the purpose of exploiting the Worker or provide the Wor ker 
with unauthorized employment.  
4. Shall be imprisoned for a period not exceeding a year and/or charged a fine of no less than (200,000) Two Hundred Thousand Dirhams and no more than (1,000,000) One 
Million Dirhams any person who:  
a. Engages in the act ivity of any Mediation or Temporary Employment of Workers 
in the State without a licence in accordance with the provisions of this 
Decree- Law and its Executive Regulations and decisions implementing them.  
b. Exploits or misuses the electronic powers grante d to them to access the Ministry's 
systems, or enables others to do so, resulting in a breach of the procedures, work 
relationships, or the Ministry's systems.  
5. A Recruitment Agency that fails to comply with any of the provisions of this Decree -Law 
or its Executive Regulations or the decisions implementing them, shall be punished with 
a fine of not less than (50,000) Fifty Thousand Dirhams and not exceeding (200,000) 
Two Hundred Thousand Dirhams.  
6. A fine of no less than (5,000) Five Thousand Dirhams  and not more than (1,000,000) 
One Million Dirhams shall be imposed on anyone who violates any other provision of 
this Decree- Law or its Executive Regulations or the decisions implementing them.  
7. The fine imposed in accordance with the provisions of th is Decree- Law and its Executive 
Regulations or the decisions implementing them shall be multiplied by the number of Workers in respect of whom the violation occurred, and up to a maximum of 
(10,000,000) Ten Million Dirhams.  
8. In the event of re- committing any of the violations referred to in this Decree -Law and its 
Executive Regulations and decisions implementing them before the lapse of one year 
from the date of the judgment, the penalty shall be doubled for the offender.  
  
Article (28)  
Final Provisions  
1. The rights stipulated in this Decree -Law represent the minimum rights of Workers. The  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  21 
 provisions of this Decree -Law do not prejudice any of the rights granted to the Worker 
under any other legislation, agreement, acknowledg ment, regulation, or Employment 
Agreement that entitles the Worker to rights more beneficial than the rights established 
under the provisions of this Decree -Law.  
2. Upon the proposa l of the Minister, the Council of Ministers shall have the power to 
change the periods mentioned in this Decree -Law in a manner that achieves a balance in 
the relationship between the concerned parties and stipulated in this Decree -Law or as 
required by th e public interest.  
3. The Council of Ministers, or whomever it delegates, shall determine the minimum salary/monthly income for a foreign resident in the event they desire to recruit or 
employ a Worker, and shall set any other controls in this regard.  
4. Every condition in an Employment Agreement or contract that contradicts the provisions 
of this Decree -Law, its Executive Regulations and the decisions implementing them, 
even if it is prior to its enforcement, shall be null and void unless it is more be neficial to 
the Worker.  
5. Arabic is the language approved in all records, files, data, Forms, contracts and other 
provisions of this Decree -Law and its Executive Regulations and the decisions issued in 
implementation of them, provided that, beside Arabic, another language understood by the non -Arabic speaking Worker is provided. It shall be taken into account that the 
non -Arabic text fully matches the Arabic text. In the event of discrepancies, the Arabic 
text shall prevail.  
6. All amounts owed to the Worker or their heirs pursuant to the provisions of this 
Decree- Law shall have a priority over all of the Employer's movable and real estate 
funds. They shall be collected immediately after collecting the amounts due to the public treasury and legal alimon y. 
7. In all cases of ending the work relationship, the Ministry shall have the authority to grant 
the Worker a new work permit, or not to grant it, for the periods it deems appropriate in 
accordance with the rules it determines in this regard.  
  
  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  22 
 Article (29)  
Fees  
Based on a proposal by the Minister and presented by the Minister of Finance, the Council of 
Ministers shall issue a decision determining the fees necessary to implement the provisions 
of this Decree -Law and its Executive Regulations.  
  
Article (30)  
Executive Regulations  
Upon the Minister's presentation, the Council of Ministers shall issue the Executive Regulations for this Decree -Law within (3) three months from the date of its publication.  
  
Article (31)  
Repealing  
1. Law No. 10 of 2017 on Domestic Workers is hereby repealed, as is any provision that 
contradicts or contradicts with the provisions of this Decree -Law.  
2. The decisions, regulations, and r ules that were in force prior to the issuance of this 
Decree- Law shall continue to be in force in a manner that does not conflict with this 
Decree- Law's provisions, until the issuance of their replacements in accordance with the 
provisions of this Decree -Law. 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
Federal Decree- Law No.  (9) of 2022 On Domestic Workers  23 
 Article (32)  
Publication and Implementation  
This Decree- Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force after (3) 
three months from the date of its publication.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
  
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace - Abu Dhabi  
Date of Issue : 9th Safar 1444 AH  
Corresponding to : 5th September, 2022 AD  
  