Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (27) of 2020  
Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  
 
The Cabinet , 
- Upon reviewing the Constitution;  and  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972, concerning the Competencies of Ministries and Powers of the 
Ministers, as amended;  and  
- Federal Law by Decree -Law No. (11) for 2008 Concerning the Human Resources at the  
Federal Government, as amended;  and  
- Federal Law by Decree -Law No. (26) of 201 9 on Public Finance;  and  
- Cabinet Resolution No. (12) of 2012 endorsing Performance Management System for Federal 
Government Employees, as amended;  and  
- Cabinet Resolution No. (23) of 2012 endorsing Salary Scales in the Federal Government;  and  
- Cabinet Resolution No. (1) of 2018 on the Executive Regulation of the Federal Decree -Law 
No. (11) of 2008 Concerning the Human Resources at the Federal Government , as amended; 
and  
- Upon the pro posal of the Chairman of the Federal Authority for Government Human 
Resources and the approval of the Cabinet,  
Has Resolved:  
 
Article (1) 
Definitions  
In application of the provisions of this Resolution, the following words and phrases shall have the 
meanings assigned thereto , unless the context indicates otherwise:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Government  : The UAE Government.  
Cabinet  : The Cabinet of the United Arab Emirates.  
Federal Entity  : Any ministry established in accordance with Federal Law No. 1 of 1972 
concerning the Competencies of Ministries and Powers of the Ministers, Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  2 
 and the amendments thereof; and any federal body, institutio n or 
regulatory agencies of the Government . 
Chairman of the 
Federal Entity  : The Minister, Chairman of Board of Directors, CEO of the entity or 
equivalent . 
Authority  : Federal Authority for Government Human Resources . 
Human 
Resrouces Law  : Federal Decree -Law No. (11) for 2008 Concerning  The Human 
Resources at the Federal Government and its amendments . 
Executive 
Regulation  : Executive Regulation of the Federal Government Human Resource Law . 
Employee  : Any person who occupies a budgeted job.  
Manpower 
Budget  : The budget adopted for the jobs and the ranks designated for the 
employees and their privileges . 
Human 
Resources 
Department  : Organisational unit concerned with human resources in a federal entity . 
Salary and 
Grade Scales  : Salary and grade scales for Federal Government employees as approved 
by the Cabinet Resolution . 
  
Article (2) 
Scope of application  
This Resolution shall apply to current and new national employees eligible to work remotely as 
determined by the federal entities, in coordination with the Authority and in accordance with the 
HR procedures and electronic systems approved in the Federal Government.  
 
Article (3) 
Types of Remote Work  
1. Part -time Remote Work: Where the employee can, at the request of his employer, divide his 
work -time between the main workplace and remote workplace in equal or different 
proportions per day, week or month.  Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  3 
 2. Full -time Remote Work: The jobs that can be performed completely from outside the official 
workplace.  
 
Article (4) 
Objectives  
This Resolution aims at:  
1. Providing multiple work options for employees and their entities to achieve a better work -life 
balance, in a way that does not affect the employer’s goals.  
2. Attraction and retention of talented persons.  
3. Reducing the federal entities’ operational costs.  
4. Providing governmental service outside official working hours.  
5. Creating new unconventional jobs.  
 
Article (5) 
Criteria for Choosing Jobs Suitable for Remote Work  
The Federal Entities shall, upon determining  the jobs suitable for remote work, abide by the 
following criteria:  
1. The jobs shall be divisible.  
2. The jobs shall be automatable.  
3. The jobs shall require specific inputs to be handled by electronic systems.  
4. Any other criteria determined by the Entity in collaboration with the Authority.  
In all cases, job suitable for working remotely shall be determined in coordination between the 
entity and the Federal Authority for Government Human Resources.  
 
Article (6) 
Mechanism for Choosing Employees to Work Remotely  
1. Employees may be selected to work remotely in suitable jobs in accordance with the following 
criteria:  
a. The employee shall be occupying a job that can be performed remotely;  Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  4 
 b. The employee has not been subject to any administrative penalties for breac h of Code of 
Ethics and Professional Conduct for Civil Service.  
c. The employee shall be honest and abide by quality and accuracy of work in addition to 
confidentiality of information.  
d. The employee has attained at least ‘Meets Expectations’ rate in the last p erformance 
appraisal.  
2. The rules and mechanisms of the Remote Work System stipulated in this Law, as well as 
employment criteria contained in the Federal Government’s HR Law and relevant regulations, 
shall apply to newly appointed employees.  
 
Article (7) 
Methods and Mechanism for Implementing the Remote Work System  
Federal entities shall make sure, while choosing remote jobs, that the outputs of these jobs are 
delivered through the following mechanism:  
1. Follow -up and delivery of outputs are made through electronic methods.  
2. Implementation is done individually.  
 
Article (8) 
Obligations of the Federal Entity Implementing  the Remote Work System  
The Federal Entity shall make sure that the following elements are available:  
1. Identifying an efficiency meas urement mechanism, and setting standards, mechanisms and 
standard time frames for each activity and outcome to be chosen.  
2. Ensure the availability of a safe technological environment to carry out remote working, 
taking into account the controls related to m aintaining the privacy and confidentiality of data 
and codifying the powers to access the systems.  
3. Ensuring the feasibility of implementing the remote work system in the entity.  
4. Providing an electronic method to follow up the employees who work remotely, i ncluding 
the method to call them, and make sure of their performance, accomplishments and outputs 
and any other matter deemed necessary by the federal entity.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  5 
 Article (9) 
Appointment  
An employee working remotely shall be subject to the same rules and controls stipulated in 
Human Resource Law and its Executive Regulations.  
 
Article (10) 
Probationary Period for New Employees  
A new employee who is appointed under remote work system shall be placed on probationary 
period for six (6) months, renewable for three (3) months. At the end of probation period, the 
employee shall undergo a performance review by the immediate supervisor to assess his/her 
capabilities in the light of productivity and performance criteria, to either recommend regular 
appointment of the employee or termination of employment.  
 
Article (11) 
Salaries and Financial Benefits  
Salary and grade scales for a Federal Government employee appointed on remote work system 
shall be subject to salary and grade scales approved for the Federal government employees as 
issued by the Cabinet Resolution.  
 
Article (12) 
Performance Appraisal of Employees Working Remotely  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Performance Management System for the Federal 
Government employees, performance of an emplo yee working remotely shall be assessed 
according to the following elements:  
1. Productivity, based on number of outcomes, tasks achieved out of target, and number of 
deliverables.  
2. Quality of outputs in terms of accuracy of deliverables.  
3. Meeting deadlines for delivering tasks within the time frame specified in the contract and 
percentage of abidance by the plan in agreement with the employer.  Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  6 
 4. Satisfaction of immediate supervisor and customers with the achieved outputs as agreed 
upon.  
5. Any other element determine d by the employer.  
 
Article (13) 
Promotions  
An employee working remotely shall be promoted according to the rules and controls stipulated 
in the Federal Government’s Human Resource Law and its executive regulations, and in 
compliance with the approved Employee Performance Management System.  
 
Article (14) 
Transport  
An entity may decide to transfer a remotely working employee to his/her original workplace, and 
vice versa, internally or to any other entity, based on the requirements of work interest and in 
accordance with provisions of transport in Federal Government’s Human Resource Law and its 
executive regulations.  
 
Article (15) 
Leave  
An employee working remotely shall be entitled to all lea ves specified by the Human 
Resource Law in the F ederal Government and its executive regulation.  
 
Article (16) 
General provisions  
1. An employee working remotely shall undertake to sign the following:  
a. The Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct for Civil Service Document.  
b. Confidentiality of Information Document attached herewith.  
c. Agreement prohibiting subcontracting of Third parties attached herewith.  
2. The provision of Human Resource Law in the Federal Government, its executive regulations, 
and other related rules shall apply to any matter not  provided for in this Resolution.  Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  7 
 Article (17) 
Publication and Enforcement  
This Resolution shall come into force as of the date of its issuance and shall be published in the 
Official Gazette.  
 
Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us: 
On: 08 Sha'ban 1441 AH  
Corresponding to: 02 April 2020 AD  
  Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  8 
 Appendix 1  
Undertaking of Data and Information Confidentiality and Security  
For the purposes of maintaining the security and confidentiality of data and information in the 
entity, regardless of its source or nature, and whether that information is kept on paper, computer 
or any other means.  
Based on the provisions of the Human Resources Law In the Federal Government, and its 
executive regulations thereof, remote working system, laws , regulations and instructions for the 
use of the intranet and internet, and pursuant to Cabinet Resolution No. 21 for 2013 regulating 
information security in the Federal Government, I undertake to recognise and abide by the 
following : 
− All information, dat a and programmes of my entity, whether stored on hard disks, attached to 
an email message or any other form, are the property of the entity and the Federal 
Government.  
− Using the entity’s information is subject to federal laws and ethical considerations.  
− Accessing any financial or administrative information obtained in the context of executing my 
duties is protected by the UAE laws, which I have to abide by.  
− I will be granted access to the entity’s information system, the "Bayanati" system,  or any other 
system, the Internet, and e -mail for business purposes only.  
− A breach of any of the information and data sources is considered illegal, as all data and 
information, including those obtained from outside the entity, are subject to regulations that 
prohibit copying and using such software.  
− The entity is implementing the federal copyright laws that categorically prohibit any violation 
of these copyright laws.  
− That the entity has systems and programmes to monitor and record all information systems , 
the Internet, and the use of e -mail. I am aware that these protection systems can register every 
website on the network that I have visited, as well as advertisements, incoming and outgoing 
email messages, files, information, and data that have been tran sferred from within or outside 
the entity. I am also aware that the entity is regularly checking information systems and 
internet activities and analysing their usage methods, and it will take the necessary measures 
in case of inappropriate use.  Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  9 
 I also re cognise that it is prohibited to:  
− View, copy, or otherwise disclose confidential information of the entity to any Third party, 
unless that is part of my job and an official assignment.  
− Change, delete, destroy or dispose of any confidential information for any reason, without 
obtaining written consent of the concerned officials in the entity.  
− Discuss any confidential information with anyone other than concerned officials in the entity.  
− Disclose any confidential information during my service o r even after the termination of my 
employment at the entity.  
− Share my passwords with other individuals or employees or use the entity’s information 
systems using passwords of other employees.  
− Leave laptops (iPad, memory chips, portable storage systems, etc .) in unsafe locations.  
− Use illegally -obtained software.  
− Install new software, or make changes to existing ones, whether hardware or software.  
− Download programmes from the internet without the consent of the entity’s IT department.  
− Take no actions that int erfere with the work of others, the network function, or any other 
computers.  
− Use data, information and software for commercial interests or personal purposes.  
− Send messages, files, programmes, or other connections that contain personal insult to others.  
− Take no action that may adversely affect the rights of employees or disclose their personal 
information, or their financial benefits.  
−  
In order to protect confidential information, I undertake to:  
− Keep my login details and passwords secret, change them re gularly, and not disclose them 
to anyone else.  
− Protect my computer applications from entering by anyone who is not authorised to do so 
by logging out of the programme or any other way to ensure protection.  
− Carefully make all arrangements that ensure safe use and confidentiality of information 
when using the entity’s systems according to the license granted to me to access the 
approved electronic systems.  Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  10 
 − Inform my entity immediately upon my knowledge or reasonable suspicion, that the 
password has been  infected with a virus or used by unauthorised persons, or upon 
suspicion of any activities that might violate the protection and confidentiality policies.  
− Always use a safe work environment and act in the interest of the entity.  
− Assume that the data may b e read by persons other than those to whom it is sent.  
− Take all measures of protection against viral infections and access by unauthorised persons 
to view the entity’s data.  
I understand and recognise that if I fail to comply with the terms of this underta king and/or 
breaching the approved information security system, I will be held legally accountable, in 
addition to disciplinary liability by the entity, which has the right to decide the appropriate 
penalty without prejudice to any punishment in accordance  with other laws and regulations.  
 
By signing this undertaking, I acknowledge the compliance with all the statements and 
provisions contained therein, subject to legal liability.  
 
Employee's Name:  .........................................................  
Job No:  ...........................................................................  
Job Title :.............................................................................  
  Cabinet Resolution of 202 0 Concerning the Remote Work System in the Federal Government  11 
 Appendix 2  
Undertaking Not to Enter Into Subcontracts to Complete Tasks  
I, the emp loyee.......................... Work in a ministry /entity ................................................. As (job 
title).................................................... Under the Remote Work System  undertake to  complete all the 
tasks assigned to me by my entity on my own without asking or authorizing any legal or 
material person to complete it on my behalf, or contracting others on this matter, and in case of 
breaching this undertaking I will bear legal responsi bility for the consequences resulting from 
such breach towards my entity and the Federal Government.  
 
 
Name : ...............................................................  
Signature : ...........................................................  
Date : ...................................................................  
 