Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (33) of 2022  
Concerning Work Injuries and Occupational Diseases  
 
The Cabinet , 
- Upon reviewing the Constitution;  and  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministe rs, and any amendments thereto;  and  
- Federal Law No. (13) of  2020 Concerning Public Health;  and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. (33) of 20 21 Regulating Labour Relations;  and  
- Cabinet Resolution No. (1) of 2022 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree 
Law No. (33) of 2021 R egulating Labour Relations; and  
- Upon the proposal of the Minister of Human Resources and Emiratis ation and the Cabinet 
approval , 
It is hereby resolved:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
The definitions stated in the aforementioned Federal  Law No (33) of 2021 shall apply to this 
Resolution; otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings assigned to each 
of them, unless the context r equired otherwise:  
Medical Authority  : Any federal or local governmental health facility that provide 
health affairs in the State or any private health facility licensed to 
provide health services in the State / 
Health Authority  : Any federal or local governmental authority concerned with 
regulating health affairs, each within the lim its of its competence . 
 
Article (2)  
Identification of Work Injuries & Occupational Diseases  
1. Occupational diseases shall be determined according to T able No. (1) attached hereto.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  2 
 2. Work injuries that result in permanent total disability shall be determined in accordance with 
Table (2) attached hereto.  
3. Work injuries that result in permanent partial disability shall be determined in accordance 
with Table (3) attached hereto.  
 
Article (3) 
Procedures and Requirements to be Followed in the Event of Work Injuries or 
Occupational Diseases  
If a worker sustained a work injury or an occupational disease as shown in Tables 1, 2, and 3 
attached thereto, the employer or his legal representative sh all act as follows:  
1. Report the incident to the medical authority.  
2. Report the competent police station according to the geographical scope. The report shall be 
made immediately in the event of a work injury as a result of an accident or any injury other 
than occupational disease, and the notification shall be from the date of the employer 
knowledge of the existence of a suspected occupational disease.  
3. Report the Ministry through the channels designated for that within a maximum period of 
(48) forty -eight hours from the date of his knowledge of the suspected occupational disease 
or from the time of the occurrence of any other work injury, provi ded that the notification 
shall include the name, age, occupation, nationality, work destination, and identity number 
of the worker and a brief description of the accident or the occupational disease, its 
circumstances, and the procedures that were taken t o aid and treat the worker.  
 
Article (4)  
Conducting Investigations into Work Injuries & Occupational Diseases  
1. The competent investigation authority at the police station shall carry out the necessary 
inference and investigation procedures according to the procedures followed in this regard, 
immediately after receiving the report, provided that these procedures shall prove whether 
the occurrence of the injury was work -related or not, and whether its occurrence was 
expected or it was the result of any of the following reasons:  
a. If the injury was a deliberate self -injury;  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  3 
 b. If the injury was a result of a direct consequence of the worker deliberate misconduct;  
c. If the injury occurred under the influence of alcohol, drugs or other psychotropic 
substances;  
d. If the  injury was a direct consequence of a deliberate violation of the precautionary 
instructions affixed in conspicuous places at the workplace.  
2. An inspector from the Ministry or the relevant authorities (health authorities or 
municipalities) shall assist the investigation authorities in collecting evidence if necessary.  
3. The statements and information included in the investigation shall be conside red mere 
inferences to be used by the medical authority, and it shall have the final decision regarding 
the existence of a work injury or not.  
4. The investigation authority shall also provide the Ministry with a copy of the result of the 
procedures it carri ed out, along with a copy of the inference record.  
 
Article (5)  
Medical Report  
1. Upon completion of treatment, the treating medical authority shall prepare a report on the 
work injury or occupational disease, in which it shall specify the injury, the type o f 
occupational disease, the cause of any of them, the date of its occurrence, its relevance to 
work, the duration of treatment, the degree of disability, whether it was total or partial, and 
the extent of the ability of the injured worker to continue to wo rk.  
2. The report of the medical authority shall be approved by the federal or local governmental 
health authority affiliated to it. The approval shall be based on the recommendation of a 
specialised medical committee or through any other system followed by the health authority. 
The report shall be given to the worker and a copy thereof to the employer, and a copy thereof  
shall be sent to the Ministry.  
 
Article (6)  
Details of the Work Injuries & Occupational Diseases  
1. All medical authorities in the  State shall periodically provide the Ministry with data on work 
injuries and occupational diseases that they receive through approved electronic systems, Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  4 
 provided that the data shall include the name of the worker, identification number, 
nationality, plac e of injury, date of injury, Emirate, degree of injury, and name of the health 
authority.  
2. All medical authorities shall record the data referred to in the item (in the national health file 
of the patient) of this article through the approved systems, and health authorities in the 
country shall verify this before approving the report.  
 
Article (7)  
Employer Obligation for Work Injuries and  Occupational Diseases 
Compensation  
In cases of work injuries and occupational diseases, the employer shall pay the due compensation 
to the worker according to the Tables attached hereto, taking into account the following 
provisions:  
1. The total disability of the function of any organ or part  of the body shall be equivalent to the 
total loss of that organ or part of the body.  
2. If the injured worker was left -handed, all compensations listed in the attached tables for left -
hand injuries shall be considered as if they were for the right -handed.  
3. In cases of corruption, mutilation or abnormal change of any body organ or any part of the 
body or any of the senses not mentioned in the tables attached hereto, the degree of disability 
shall be assessed by the competent medical committee.  
 
Article (8)  
Updating Schedules  
The Minister, in coordination with the Ministry of Health and Community Protection, may update 
Table No. (1) attached hereto regarding occupational diseases if needed.  
 
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  5 
 Article (9)  
Publication and Enforcement  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and enter into force as of the day 
following the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.  
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us ,  
On: 10 Ramadan 1443 A.H. 
Corresponding to: 11 Apri l 2022  AD  
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  6 
 SCHEDULES ANNEXED TO CABINET RESOLUTION NO. 33 OF 2022 
REGARDING WORK INJURIES  & OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES  
 
SCHEDULE NO. (1)  
Occupational Illness  
 
Disease -Causing Work  Diseases  
 Serial 
No. 
Any occupation that requires use or handling of 
lead or its compounds containing lead.  Poisoning by lead and lead 
compounds  1 
Any occupation that requires the production, use or 
disposal of mercury and its components, in addition 
to any work involving e xposure to dust or gases of 
mercury or its components or materials containing 
mercury.  Poisoning by mercury and its 
compounds  2 
Any occupation that requires the production, use or 
disposal of arsenic and its components, in addition 
to any work involving  exposure to dust or gases of 
mercury or its components or materials containing 
arsenic.  Poisoning by arsenic and its 
compounds  3 
Any occupation that requires use or handling of 
antimony or its components or exposure to the dust 
or gases of antimony or its components or items 
containing antimony.  Poisoning by Antimony and its 
contents  4 
Any occupation requiring use or handling of 
phosphorus or its components or exposure to the 
dust or gases of phosphorus or its components or 
items containing phosphorus.  Poisoning by phosphorus and 
its compounds  5 
Any occupation that requires use or han dling of 
benzene and its derivatives or its compounds or Poisoning by petroleum and its 
similar products, gases, or its 6 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  7 
 exposure to the dust or vapours of benzene 
whether in solid, liquid or gaseous form.  
 various compounds and 
derivatives  
Any occupat ion that requires the production, use or 
disposal of Manganese and its components, in 
addition to any work involving exposure to dust or 
gases of mercury or its components or materials 
containing Manganese.  Poisoning by manganese and 
its compounds  7 
 
Disease -Causing Work  Diseases  
 Serial 
no. 
Any occupation that requires use or handling of 
sulphuric metal or its components or any items 
having sulphuric content or exposure to the dust 
and gases of sulphuric metal and its components or 
any items having sulphuric content.  Poisoning by sulphur and  its 
compounds  8 
Any occupation that requires use or handling of 
chloroform or carbon tetrachloride or exposure to 
the gases containing them.  Poisoning with anaesthesia or 
carbon tetrachloride  9 
Any occupation that requires exposure or radium or 
any o ther radio -active substance or X=rays.  Diseases caused by radium or 
x-ray reflective materials  10 
Any occupation that requires use or handling of tar 
or coal tar equipment, mineral oil or kerosene (or 
cement, flour or similar dust or any of their 
compound s, products or residues).  Incurable skin diseases, skin 
and eye burns  11 
Any occupation that requires recurrent or 
continuous exposure to reflection of light, heat or 
radiation emitted by molten glass, hot or molten 
metals or exposure to powerful light and high 
temperature that could cause harm to eye or sight.  Effect on the e ye due to heat 
and light and their effects  12 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  8 
 Any occupation that requires exposure to silicon 
dust or any items with silicon content in a 
concentration of more than 5%, such as work in 
rock cement factories, sandblasting of metals or any 
other occupatio n requiring a similar exposure, as 
well as any work requiring exposure to asbestos or 
cotton dust to such an extent as to result in such a 
disease.  Diseases resulting from 
exposure to:  
1 – Silica dust.  
2 – Asbestos dust.  
3 – Cotton dust.  
4 – Any other dust that may 
cause lung injury.  13 
Any occupation that requires contact with animals 
affected by such a disease or with their skins, horns 
and hair.  Anthrax  14 
Any occupation that requires contact with animals 
affected by this disease.  Ascites disease  15 
Any occupation in hospitals providing treatment 
patients affected by this disease.  Pulmonary Tuberculosis  16 
Any work in hospitals specialized in the treatment 
of this disease.  Enteric Fever  17 
 
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  9 
 SCHEDULE NO. (2)  
PERMANENT TOTAL  DISABILITY COMPENSATION ASSESSMENT  
 
Percentage  Nature Of Permanent Disability  Disability 
Degree  
100  1. Loss of both arms from the shoulder, or loss of any two or 
more body parts.  
Total  100  2. Total loss of eye sight or loss of both eyes.  
100  3. Total Paralysis.  
100  4 Imbecility or total mental deficiency.  
100  5. Wounds or injuries to the head or brain that cause a 
constant headache.  
100  6. Total disfigurement of face.  
100  7. Wounds and injuries in the chest and internal organs that 
cause permanent and complete disruption in the functioning 
of the organs.  
 
Table No. (3)  
PERMANENT PARTIAL DISABILITY COMPENSATION ASSESSMENT  
Percentage  Nature Of Permanent Disability  Disabili ty 
Degree  
90 1. Loss of both legs from the thigh.  
Partial  85 2. Loss of hands from the elbow or above.  
80 3. Severe disfigurement of the face.  
70 4. Total loss of both hands from the elbow.  
70 5. Total loss of right arm from shoulder joint or from the 
elbow.  
70 6. Loss of both legs from the knee or above.  
60 7. Total loss of left arm from the shoulder joint or from the 
elbow.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  10 
  
Percentage  Nature Of Permanent Disability  Disability 
Degree  
60 8. Loss of one leg from the knee or above.   
60 9. Loss of the right arm from or below the elbow.   
60 10. Loss of one leg from the thigh.   
60 11. Loss of both legs from below the knee.   
60 12. Loss of right hand  fingers including thumb.   
50 13. Loss of left arm from above or below the elbow.   
50 14. Loss of the left hand fingers including thumb.   
50 15. Loss of one leg below the knee.   
50 16. Total and permanent loss of hearing.   
45 17. Loss of tongue or permanent dumbness.   
45 18. Loss of both feet from the ankle or below.   
45 19. Loss of genital organ.   
45 20. Loss of sight of one eye.   
38 21. Loss of right hand from the wrist.   
35 22. Loss of thumb or four fingers of the right hand.   
34 23. Loss of left hand from the wrist.   
25 24 Loss of thumb or four of the left hand fingers.   
20 25. Loss of one foot from the ankle or below.   
20 26. Loss of all toes of one foot including the big toe.   
15 27. Loss of three of the right hand fingers excluding the thumb.   
15 28. Loss of the index finger of the right hand.   
10 29. Loss of the phalanges joint of the right hand thumb.   
10 30. Loss of the index finger of the left hand.   
10 31. Loss of three of the left hand fingers excluding the thumb.   
10 32. Loss of all toes foot of one excluding the big toe.   
 
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning Work Diseases and Occupational Injuries  11 
 Percentage  Nature Of Permanent Disability  Disability 
Degree  
10 33. Loss of big toe of one foot.   
6 34. Loss of the last phalanges joint of the left foot great toe.   
6 35. Loss of the right hand middle finger.   
6 36. Loss of the left hand middle finger.   
6 37. Loss of the right hand  annular finger.   
6 38. Loss of the left hand annular finger.   
6 39. Loss of the right hand auricular finger.   
6 40. Loss of one finger of the left hand.   
5 41. Loss of the phalanges joint of any finger excluding the 
thumb.   
5 42. Loss of the right hand index finger second joint.   
5 43. Loss of the foot toes excluding the great toe.   
3 44. Loss of one molar tooth.   
2 45. Loss of one canine tooth.   
 