Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (16) of 2024  
on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (20) of 2022  
Regulating the Notary Profession  
 
The Cabinet,  
Having reviewed:  
− The Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972, on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Decree -Law No. (20) of 2022, Regulating the Notary Profession; and  
− Based on the Proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, and the Cabinet approval 
thereof,  
Hereby resolves as follows:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
The definitions set forth in Federal Decree -Law No. (20) of 2022, referred to 
hereinabove, shall apply to th is Resolution . In addition , the following words and 
expressions shall bear the meanings assigned thereto respectively , unless the context 
requires otherwise:  
Profession  : The notary profession , whether carried out by the Public 
Notary or the Private Notary.  
Office  : An office licensed by both the Competent Licensing Authority  
and the Ministry for carrying out the Profession in the State.   
Competent 
Licensing Authority  : The local authority or free zone  authority, as the case may be, 
in charge of issuing the Office’s professional license.  
 Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  2 
 License  : The document issued by the Ministry, and which  includes its 
approval for the Private N otary to carry out their duties  
through the O ffice.  
Roster  : The Private Notary registration roster.  
Institute  : The Judicial Training Institute of the Ministry of Justice.  
Decree -Law  : Feder al Decree -Law No. (20) of 2022, Regulating the Notary 
Profession.  
 
Article (2)  
Procedures for Execution and Notariz ation of  
Documents, Contracts and Instruments  
The Notary shall execute and notarize docum ents, contracts and instruments according 
to the following procedures:  
1. The Person Concer ned shall submit an application , as per the form designated for 
such purpose,  for carrying out the transaction , accompanied by the documents 
necessary for identity verification , such as an identity card, passport or any other 
official document issued by the S tate.  
2. The Notary shal l verify the eligibility of the P ersons  Concerned an d their capacities  
and their satisfaction with the transaction  content . To that end , the Notary may use 
IT Means that ensure the identity verification and appearance of the Persons 
Concerned, such as visual communication and other means of remote 
communication.  
3. The Persons Concerned shall sign the document, contract or instrument, subject of 
the transaction.  
4. The N otary shall add a notarization report at th e end of the document, contract  or 
instrument  to be signed and stam ped by their seal and shall attached with the 
underlying document or contract . Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  3 
 5. The Concerned Person shall pay  the prescribed fees, as per the applicable 
mechanism.  
6. The original document, contract or instrument, subject of the transaction , shall be 
kept in  the Notary’s records , and the transaction shall be recorded  in the R egister.  
7. The Person Concerned shall receive  a copy of the document, contract  or instrument, 
subject of the tr ansaction, including the report referred to in Clause (4) above.  
The Notary shall comply with the contr ols set forth in article (8) o f the Decree -Law, 
pertaining to transactions of people with special cases.  
 
Article (3)  
Administration of Oath  
An oath shall be administered  before the Notary according to the following procedu res: 
1. The Notary shall read out the instrument, subject of the oath  administration , before  
the Persons Concerned .  
2. The oath taker shall take  the legal oath by saying: “I swear by  Almighty  God ,” and 
shall then mention  the wording that relates to the content of the  instrument . An oath 
taker may  take the oath, at their  request, according to the conditions prescribed in 
their  religion.  
3. The Notary shall record oath administration  procedures in the report, which shall be 
signed by the Persons Concerned and the  Notary.  
 
Article (4)  
Execution and Notariz ation of Affidavits  
1. The Notary shall verify the eligibility of the Persons Concerned and their capacities  
and consent  before executing and notarizing the affidavits.  
2. The Public Notary  shall execute and notarize the affidavits after administering oath 
to the Persons Concerned, as set out in article (3) above. The administ ration of oath Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  4 
 shall be limited to verifying  affidavits that the Persons Concerned desire to  have 
them notarize d.  
 
Article (5)  
Administration of Oath and Notarization of  
Affidavits  by the Private Notary  
1. The Private Notary shall have the power to administer oath and notarize affidavits , 
as per the follo wing conditions and procedures:  
a. He must submit an application to the Competent D epartment, as per the 
form designated for such purpose, for grant ing them  the power to administer 
oath and notarize affidavits , accompanied by the documents specified by the 
Committee for such  purpose;   
b. His name must be registered  in the Roster for a period of not l ess than three  
(3) years; and  
c. He must have never been sanction ed by a disciplinary sanction for any 
violation of the provisions of the Decree -Law or the present Resolution 
throughout  the three years preceding the submission of the application.  
2. The Competent D epartment shall present the application to t he C ommittee to decide 
thereon  within (40) forty business  days from the date of its submission, and the 
applicant shall be notified of the decision within ten (10) business days f rom the date 
of issuance. In the event that the Committee issues a decision of ap proval, it shall be  
recorded  in the register designated for such purpose .  
3. The Committee sha ll issue a reasoned decision rejecting the grant ing of the power to 
administer oath and notarize affidavits. Whoever has his application rejected  may 
file a grievance  to the Minister  against the  rejection decision  within ten ( 10) business  
days from the date of being notified or of becom ing aware of the decision . The 
decision issued by the Minister shall be final.  Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  5 
 4. The Private N otary whom the C ommittee agreed to grant the power  to administer 
oath  and notarize affidavits shall stamp instruments with a special seal showing the 
Commi ttee’s approval number to grant such power, as set out in the register referred 
to in Clause (2) above, and shall com ply with the same controls set out in articles (3) 
and (4) above.  
 
Article (6)  
Notarizing and Recording Dates of Signatures on Unofficial instrument s 
1. The Notary shall:  
a. Notarize  sign atures of the Persons Concerned on unofficial instrument s; and  
b. Record  dates of unofficial instrument s.  
At the request of the Persons Concerned; provided that the underlying 
transaction is re corded in th e Register and a report thereon  is recorded and 
be signed by , and stamped by the seal of  the Notary and be delivered to the 
Persons Concerned.  
2. For applying Clause (1) above , the same procedur es set out in article (2) above shall 
be applicable.  
 
Article (7)  
Keeping  Copies of Documents and Instruments  
1. When exercising their duties, as set out in the Decree -Law and  the present 
Resolution, the Notary shall keep a copy of any documents relied on when carrying 
out the transaction.  
2. For the purposes of applyi ng this A rticle, the documents referred to above mean any 
official documents presented by the Perso ns Concerned  for the verification of 
identity , such as an identity card, passport or any other o fficial document issued by 
the S tate, in addition to any other official documents that the Notary deems Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  6 
 necessary to verify the eligibility, capacities  and consent  by the Persons C oncerned of 
the content of the transaction.  
3. Copies of the aforesaid documents shall be kept  in the register  designated for such 
purpose , and failure to do the same shall con stitute a basis to hold the Notary 
accountable  on disciplinary grounds .  
 
Article (8)  
Official Seals and Writ of Execution Seals  
1. The Ministry shall approve official seals of the Notary  and writ of execution seals as 
regards the transactions  carried out by the Notary, as follows:  
a. The official seal of the Notary shall  bear  the logo of the M inistry, and shall  
have the following wording on the stamp “The Notary Public and 
Notarization Department - the Ministry of Justice”.  
b. The writ of execution seal shall bear the following phrase:  
“The competent authorities and bodies shall  take necessary actions to 
enforce this instrument , and shall provide assist ance  for enforcing the same , 
even  if by force , whenever they are requested to enforce it.” 
2. The official seal of the N otary and the writ of execution seal shall be governed by the 
provisions of electronic seals set forth in Federal Decree Law No. (46) of 2021, on 
Electronic Transactions and Trust S ervices.  
 
Article (9)  
Procedures of Corrections in the Register  
1. The Register shall be free of any  scraping, deletion, addition or breaks.  
2. Data recorded in the Register may only be modified in the following cases:  
a. In case of omission in recording the data in the Register;  Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  7 
 b. In case of material  or clerical  error in any of the data recorded in the  Register; 
and  
c. In case such correction, deletion or addition is necessary, a s the direc tor of 
the Competent D epartment deems appropriate in this regard.  
3. The data of the Register, whether in hard or soft format, shall be corrected accord ing 
to the following procedures:  
a. The competent Notary shall submit a report requesting a correction in the 
Registe r’s data to the director of the C ompetent Department, indicating the 
reason for  the correction, as per the cases set out in  Clause (2) above;  
b. The competent N otary shall provide the Person Concerned with a copy of the 
report requesting correction in the Register, afte r being approved by the 
director of the Competent D epartment;  
c. The competent Notary shall take the corrective action i n the Register in the 
presence of the Persons C oncerned and shall request them to sign an 
acknowledgment ap proving the correction in the Register; and  
d. The competent N otary shall sign the Re gister next to the correction  of their 
data .  
4. The above procedures  shall not pre clude the applicability thereof pursuant to the 
provisions for using the information technolo gy means in the Notary’s functions, as 
set f orth in the Decree -Law and the provisions of Federal Decree -Law No. (46) of 
2021, on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services.  
 
Article (10)  
Controls and Procedures for Correcting Instrument s 
1. The Notary may correct material clerical or arithmet ical errors in the Instrument that 
the Notary detects while practicing  their functions , shall notify the Persons 
Concerned of the correction before  making it , and shall only make the correction 
after their approval.  Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  8 
 2. The  notary public shall correct any error that may have been made by the Persons  
Concerned on the data and information recorded in the Instrument, at the request of 
the Persons C oncerned or their legal representatives, in accordance with the 
following procedures and controls:  
a. The Persons Concerned shall send the correction application on the 
electronic system to the N otary who conducted the transaction, the person 
acting on his own behalf or the Department  Director , as the case may be.  
b. The Notary shall verify the nature of a material error and its place in the 
Instrument to assess how possible to be modified .  
c. If the correction is found possible , the N otary shall record the data or 
information in the Instrument, subject of the transaction.  
d. The N otary shall sen d the corrected Instrument to the Persons Concerned via 
the electronic system, after paying the fee prescribed for the correction.  
 
Article (11)  
Obtaining a Copy of Instruments Retained in the Notary’s Files  
The Persons Concerned may obtain a copy of any of their Instruments retained  in the 
Notary’s files o r recorded in the R egister, in accordance with the following procedures:  
1. The Persons C oncerned shall submit  an application to the Competent D epartment 
on the form  designated for such purpose, accompanied by the documents that 
identify  their capacities and the  transaction  number  for which a copy of the  
Instrument papers or the data recorded in the R egister  are required .  
2. The Competent Department shall review the app lication to verify the applicant’ s 
capacity and that the applied Instrument belongs to the applicant .  
3. The Department shall send  a copy of the required papers to the Persons C oncerned 
after the prescribed fee is paid, as per the applicable mechanism.  
 Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  9 
 Article (12)  
Conditions for Registration of the Private Notary in the Roster  
In order for a person to be registered in the  Roster, he must:  
1. Be a citizen of the  State;  
2. Be fully capacitated and medically fit;  
3. Be of good conduct and behavior, and never been convicted of a felony or 
misdemeanor that  involves moral turpitude or breach of trust , even if he has been 
rehabilitated;  
4. Hold  a degre e in law or Sharia and law from a university or higher institute  
recognized in the State, or the equivalent  degree; and  
5. Have previously worked for a period of not less than three (3) years in the judiciary, 
the Public Prosecution, the Department of L egislation  and State Litigation , teaching 
of law or Sharia and law at a university or higher institute recognized in the State,  the 
Notary P ublic, the legal profession, legal departments of ministries or government  
authorities , private legal persons or other legal professions equivalent to the 
judiciary and the Public Prosecution, as determined by the Committee , including:  
a. Legal officers of the military judiciary, courts or Military Prosecution/ Armed 
Forces;  
b. Members  of the Police Judicial Council/Ministry of Interior;  
c. Legal a dvisors and researchers serving at federal or local government 
authorities;  and   
d. Legal advisors of commercial companies, public -benefit associations and 
private organizations;  
6. Provide  a valid professional liability insurance  policy  issued by an insurance 
company licensed to operate  in the State, as per the cont rols determined by the 
Minister;  
7. Have not been previously removed from the Roster, unless three years have elapsed  
since the date of issuance of the decision or  judgment;  Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  10 
 8. Successfully pass the training program and tests prescribed  by t he Institute;  
9. Practice the P rofession through a decen t and appropriate O ffice; and   
10. Pay the prescribed fees.  
 
Article (13) 
Data of Registration in Private Notary Roster  
The Private N otary ’s Roster must include the following information:  
1. The Private Notary’s name, date of birth, academic degree  and date of award , 
practical experience and contact details;  
2. Registration  number and date in the Roster;  
3. Registration  expiration date;  
4. Office name and address and any modification  thereto, and name  of the O ffice 
director;  
5. The Private N otary ’s specimen signature ;  
6. Complaints filed against the Private N otary, actions taken thereon, violations 
committed and the penalties imposed on  the Notary ;  
7. Data of professional liability insurance policy; and  
8. Any other data that the C ommittee decides to add  to the Roster.  
 
Article (14)  
Procedures of Registration  in the Private Notary ’s Roster  
The  registration  in the Roster shall be made according to the following procedures:  
1. An application for registration  in the Roster shall be submitted to the Competent 
Department, as per the form designated for such purpose , accompanied by the 
following documents:  
a. A copy of the applicant’s ID card or passport ; Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  11 
 b. A copy of the applicant’ s academic degree, issued by a recog nized university 
or higher institute, duly attested by the competent authority in the State;  
c. A certificate o f good conduct for the applicant issued  by the competent 
authority in the State;  
d. A copy of the a pplicant’s practical experience certificate;  
e. A medical fitness certificate of the registration  applicant, issued by the 
competent authority in the State;  
f. A statement of the O ffice through which the applicant will carry out  their 
duties; and  
g. A proof that the applicant has successfully pas sed the training program and 
the tests prescribed by the Institute.  
2. The Competent Department shall record the registration  app lication in a list 
prepared for such purpose, and the registration  applicant shall be given notice for 
submitting  their application.  
3. The Department shall refer the registration  application s that have fulfilled the 
documents set out in Clause (1) above to the Committee, within (40) business  days 
from the date o f submitting the application, to examine them and verify that  they 
meet  all nec essary conditions and documents in this regard.  
4. The Committee shall issue its decision on the application of registration  in the Roster, 
within (40) forty business days from the referral date, and the application  shall be 
deemed rejected upon th e lapse of the above time limit without issuing a decision on 
the application.  
5. If the C ommittee approv es the application for registration  in the Roster, the 
registration  applicant shall do as follows to complete the procedures  of their 
registration :  
a. Paying the fee prescribed for the registration ;  
b. Submit ting  a duly certified copy of the O ffice lease  agreement  or certificate of 
title for the O ffice through which he will practice  their Profession, or a Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  12 
 statement of the address of the O ffice through which he will conduct  their 
business.  
c. Providing a valid professional liability insurance policy, issued by an 
insurance company licensed to operate in the  State . 
 
Article (15) 
Private Notary Term of Registration  in the Roster  
1. The Private Notary shall be registered  in the Roster for (3) three years, renewable for 
similar terms, at  their request.  
2. The Private Notary shall submit a renewal applicati on at least (20) twenty business 
days prior to the expiry  of their registration , accompanied  by a document proving the 
update and development of  their skills in the area of Notary Public over the past 
three years, whet her through training courses or scientific and practical  
participations in symposiums, conferences or oth er areas that indicate the update of 
such skills, which area organized by the Judicial Training Institute.  
3. The Private Notary del ay in renewing  their registration  for (70) seventy business day 
following the expiry thereof, without an excuse  acceptable to the Committee, shall 
entail the removal of  their registration  from the Roster.  
 
Article (16)  
Deregistration  in the Roster  
1. The Private Notary ’s name shall be removed  from the  Roster by decision of the 
Committee  in any of the following cases:  
a. Death;  
b. Upon a written application from the Private Notary;  
c. Failure to renew the registration  after (70) seventy business days  from the 
expiration thereof witho ut a n excuse acceptable to the Committee;  and  Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  13 
 d. One of the license terms, as set out in the Decree -Law and this Resolution, 
has been lost.  
2. The Private N otary shall be removed  from the  Roster by a decision issued by the 
Committee, based on any of the following cases:  
a. A court ruling of conviction is rendered on a crime involving moral turpitude 
or breach of trust ; or  
b. A decisio n is issu ed by the Disciplinary Board to remove their name from the 
Roster.  
3. Upon the deregistration  of the Private Notary from the Roster, he shall hand over the  
official seals, records and files to the  Department . 
4. The Department shall receive official seals, records  and files in  the event of the death 
of the Private N otary, in accordance with the proce dures defined  by a decision of the 
Minister.  
 
Article (17)  
Temporary Cessation of P racticin g the P rofession  
1. The Committee may, based on an application submitted thereto by the Private 
Notary if the latter suffer s an accident or an impediment that would preclude them 
from practicing the P rofession, or for any other reason accep ted by the Committee, 
authorize them for a specific period to cease to practic e their functions ; provided that 
they submit  an undertaking  that there are no obligation s on t he O ffice  arising from 
such application, without prejudice to the interests of the Persons Concerned , and 
after the prescribed fee is paid.  
2. The Private N otary may request to resume  their duties , and the C ommittee may 
auth orize them to do the same after verifying that the reason preventing them from 
performing their functions no longer exists , and after  the prescribed fee is paid.  
 Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  14 
 Article (18)  
Controls fo r the Notary’s Movement Outside the Office  
1. The Public Notary may only move outside  their office to conduct any transaction set 
forth  in the Decree -Law in the following cases:  
a. The transaction must be related to a Muslim woman who is unable to le ave 
the marital home during the Sharia waiting period  of Iddah ; 
b. The transaction must be related to a person with disability who is unable to 
appear before the Public N otary due to  their disability;  
c. The transaction must be related to a patient who is unable to appear before 
the public notary due to  their medical condition;  and   
d. Any other special case or emergency circumstances de termined by the 
director of the Competent D epartment or his representativ e. 
2. When practicing the P rofession, the Private N otary may conduct any transaction 
stipulated under the Decree -Law outside  their Office whenever he deems it 
necessary in view of the nature of the transaction or the condition of the Person 
Concerned , taking into account the applicability of the provisions of the disciplinary 
liability in the event that he unjustifiably violates the prohibition stipulated in this 
article.  
 
Article (19)  
Licens ing Terms of the O ffice  
1. The Private N otary shall  practice  their duties through an O ffice licensed for this 
purpose or through a licensed law firm . 
2. In order to  obtain the O ffice license, the following  conditions  must be fulfilled:  
a. The owner or tenant of the O ffice required to be licensed must be registered  
in the Roster as a Private N otary;  Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  15 
 b. His Office  must be suitable for receiving clients  or visitors an d carrying out 
the duties of a N otary, and must be equipped with the facilities and supplies 
specif ied by the Competent D epartment;  
c. Must have a valid professi ona l license from the relevant Licensing A uthority 
in the  State;  
d. Must be equipped with office equipment and electronic devices , including an 
electronic information system and information technology means necessary 
to practice as a Private N otary , as deci ded by the Competent D epartment;  
e. The Private N otary’s professional liability insurance contract must be valid  
throughout the license term; and  
f. Paying the prescribed license fee. 
 
Article (20)  
Procedures for I ssuing the Office L icense  
The O ffice license shall be issued according to the following procedures:  
1. The license applica tion shall be submitted to the Competent D epartment , as per  the 
form  designated for such purpose, accompanied by the following documents:  
a. A copy of the ID card or pa ssport of the license applicant;  and  
b. A copy of proof of registration  of the Private Notary, the owner of the O ffice 
whose license is required.  
2. The Competent D epartment shall record  the License application in a list designated 
for such purpose, and the License applicant shall be given a notice of submitting  their 
application.  
3. The Competent Department shall refer the License application to the Committee to 
examine it and decide whether or n ot to grant the initial approval, within (10) ten 
business days from the date  of submitting the application that fulfils the conditions, 
requirem ents  and documents.  To that end , the C ommittee may request any other 
documents it deems necessary.  Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  16 
 4. The L icense applicant shall complete the professional License procedures of the 
Office with the competent Licensing A uthority in the  State , and shall complete the 
conditions and requirements for obtaining the License within a time limit not 
exceeding (70) seven ty business days, as of the date of being granted the initial 
approval.  
5. The Competent D epartment shall co nduct an on -site inspection and examination of 
the Office required to be licensed, in order to ensure  that all requirements for 
obtaining the license a re fulfilled , and i t may take any of the following actions:  
a. Making a recommendation to the C ommittee to grant the License to the 
applicant if he fulfil s all requirements necessary to pr actice as a Private 
Notary.  
b. Granting the applicant an additional period not exceeding fifty (50) business  
days to fulfill or complete the requirements for obtaining the License. If the 
applicant fails t o do so, the Committee shall be recommende d to revoke the 
initial approval granted  to the applicant, and to notify the c ompetent 
Licensing A uthority to revoke the professional license granted to  them . 
6. The Competent D epartment shall present the application to the Committee to decide 
thereon within (40) forty business  days from the date of its submission, and the 
applicant shall be notified of the decision within (10) ten business  days from the date 
of its issuance. In  the event that the Committee issues a decision approving the 
License application, the L icense applica nt shall be ordered to pay the prescribed fee.  
 
Article (21)  
Term of the Office License and R enewal  
1. The License term shall be one year, renewable for similar terms, based on a n 
application  to be submitted by the person having the capacity . 
2. The License renewal application shall be submitted at least twenty (20) business 
days prior to the expiry of the L icense  term . Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  17 
 3. The notary public service may not be provided through the Office after the License 
term thereof expires . 
4. The Competent D epartment  shall notify the competent Licensing A uthority to 
revoke the O ffice’s license in any of the following cases:  
a. In case the L icense renewal application is rejected; and  
b. If the O ffice fails to renew the L icense within seventy (70) business  days from 
the date of its expiration witho ut an excuse acceptable to the C ommittee.  
 
Article (22)  
Controls  of the Office Management  
While managing the O ffice, a licensed Notary shall:  
1. Place the registration  certificate and the license at a clearly visible place easily 
accessible by the public;  
2. Create a record to draw up and record transactions, as decided by the Competent 
Department;  
3. Maintain files ordered  by date for the original copies of Instruments drawn up, 
documented  or their date is recorded by the Notary, or any other transaction;  
4. Provide a periodic  report to the Competent D epartment on transactions conducted  
and a copy of transactions  drawn up, documented or registered  by the Notary, and 
any other transactions carried out by the Notary pursuant to the provisions of the 
Decree -Law and the present Resolution, as decided  by the Competent Department;  
5. Notify the Competent D epartment of the Private Notaries who work with the Notary 
at the Office and any change that occurs to them, within (10) ten business  days of 
the change , to take actions it deems appropriate in this regard;  
6. Notify the Competent D epartment of every amendment or change that occurs t o the 
data of the professional L icense issued by the com petent Licensing A uthority in the  
State  to the Notary , or any other statement on the O ffice, within (20) twenty Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  18 
 business  days from the date of the change, in order to take the actions  it de ems 
appropriate in this regard;  
7. Maintain  a special record  in which data of transactions completed  by the Notary and 
their date and names of the parties thereto are recorded for the period determined 
by the Competent D epartment;  
8. The registration  of all Private N otaries working at the O ffice must be valid, and mus t 
be working thereat on a full -time basis;  
9. Place a sign at a visible place at the O ffice stating the fees charged fo r services 
provided by the Office and the fees the Notary charges for each transact ion, in both 
Arabic and English;  
10. Represent the O ffice before the Ministry; and  
11. Not advertise oneself by any means of advertising in a way inconsist ent with the 
traditions of the Notary P rofession, or seek to do so by means of advertising or 
inducement using  mediators . In all cases, prior permission fro m the Commit tee of 
the means of advertising shall be required.  
 
Article (23)  
Practicing the Profession through a Licensed Law F irm  
If the Private N otary practices notarial duties through a licensed law firm, the following 
controls shall apply : 
1. The law firm’s license must be valid;  
2. A special and separate part of the law firm  must  be allocated to the private notary; 
and  
3. The activity of practicing the P rofession of Notary P ublic must  be included in the 
license issued by the competent authoritie s to the law firm.  
 
 Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  19 
 Article (24)  
Functions  of the Committee  
1. The Committee shall:  
a. Examine and decide on applications for licensing  and renew ing the L icense of 
the Private N otary , and applications for the revocation of the license and 
cessation of business , and shall decide thereon;  
b. Examine and decide on applications for transferring the Private N otary from 
one Office to another;  
c. Consider acts committed by the Private N otary in vi olation of the p rovisions 
of the Decree -Law and the present Resolution, as referred to i t by the 
Competent Department;  
d. Examine complaints filed against the Private N otary or the Office, in order to 
decide either to file or refer them to the Public Prosecution;  
e. Decide  on applications for administering oath and notarizing affidavits by the 
Private Notary;  
f. Supervise the Roster;  
g. Decide on applications for registration of practicing lawyers to practice as a 
Private Notary;  
h. Decide on the Office licensing applications;  
i. Develop  training programs that the Private Notary is required to attend; and  
j. Any other functions assigned under the Decree -Law or the present 
Resolution.  
2. The Committee shall decide on any of the applicati ons referred to in Paragraphs (a), 
(g) and (h ) of Clause (1)  above  within (40) forty business  days from the date of its 
submission, and the applicant shall be notifi ed of the decision within (10 ) ten 
business  days from the date of issuance.  
3. The Committee shall issue its  decisions rejecting any of the applications referred  to in 
Paragraphs (a), (g) and (h) of Clause (1) above  reasoned. A person whose application Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  20 
 is rejected may challenge the Commi ttee’s decision of rejec tion before the 
competent court, within (10) t en business  days from the date of being notified of the 
decision or the lapse of the time limit for deciding on the application  without a 
response, and its ruling in this case  shall be f inal . 
 
Article (25)  
Supervision of the Competent D epartment  
over the Notary’s Functions  
1. The Competent D epartment shall supervise the Notary’s functions , and  their 
functions shall be subject to administrative and technical in spection by it on an 
annual and unscheduled periodic basis or whenever  required  by exercising the 
following powers and procedures:  
a. Supervising the progress of administrative and technical wo rk and verifying 
its regularity;  
b. Inspecting the work of the N otary and collecting data that  leads to knowing 
the degree of  their competence and keenness to perform the duties and 
requir ements of  their work;  
c. Monitoring, examining and reviewing all types of transactions carried out by 
the Notary and verifying  their compliance with  their administrative and 
technical duties.  
d. Examining  records of the Notary.  
e. Inspecting the validity and integrity of procedures for  notarizing , drawing up 
or recording the date  of private  documents and any other transactions within  
their competence, pursuant to the provisions of the Decree -Law or any other 
legislation in force.  Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  21 
 f. Verifying whether the Notary is aware and familiar with the legislation and 
decisions related to  their work, in particular the obligations and prohibitions 
of the N otary.  
g. Verifying whether the Notary complies with the professional norms  and 
ethics  and guideline that he is required to follow.  
h. Any other functions or competences entrusted by the committee to  it. 
2. The C ompetent Department  shall submit reports on the results of the administrative 
and technical  inspection of the Private N otary to the Committee to consider them, in 
accordance with its powers set forth in the Decree -Law and the present Resolution.  
 
Article (26)  
Executive Resolutions  
The Minister shall issue the resolutions necessary for executing the provisions of the 
present Resolution.  
 
Article (27)  
Repeals  
Cabinet Resolution No. (39) of 2014, on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. 
(4) of 2013, Regulating the Notary Profession , and any provision repugnant to, or in 
conflict with , the provisions of this Resolution, shall hereby be repealed.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Federal Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  of 2022 Regulating the Notary 
Profession  22 
  
Article (28)  
Publication and Entry into Force  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force as of 
the day following the date of its publication.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us:  
On: Sha ’ban 27th, 1445 H. 
Corresponding to: March 8th, 2024 AD . 
 
 
 
 