Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (106)  of 2022  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (9) of 
2002 on Domestic Workers   
 
The Cabinet,  
- Having reviewed:  
- The Constitution; and  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended; and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. (33) of 2021  Regulating  Labor  Relations and the Executive 
Regulations thereof; and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. (9) of 2022 on Domestic Workers; and  
- Cabinet Resolution No. (22) of 201 9 on the Executive Regulations of Fed eral Law No. 
(10) of 2017 on Domestic Workers; and  
- Based on the Pr opos al submitted by the Minister of Human Resources and 
Emiratization, and the Cabinet ’s approval thereof,  
Hereby resolves as follows:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
The definitions set out in Federal Decree -Law No. (9) of 2022, referred to hereinabove , 
shall be applied; otherwise, the following words and expressions shall have the meanings 
assigned thereto respectively, unless the context requires otherwise:  
Law  : Federal Decree -Law No. (9) of 2022 on Domestic Workers.  
Preliminary 
Agreement  : A written agreement between a Domestic Worker 
recruitment office and a Recruitment Agency abroad, which 
provides for the conditions and qualifications to be fulfilled 
by the Domestic Worker, based on the agreement concluded Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  2 
 between  the Employer and the Domestic Worker recruitment 
office.  
Suspension of 
Employer’s File   : An action to be taken by the Ministry whereby the Employer 
is not granted a permit for recruiting a Domestic Worker for 
violating the provisions of the Law, the p resent Resolution or 
the governing resolutions thereof, as per the time limits and 
procedures set by the Ministry.  
 
Article (2)  
Domestic Worker  Occupations   
The  Domestic Worker occupations governed by the provisions of the Law and the present 
Resolution shall be according to Schedule  No. (1) attached to the present Resolution .  
 
Article (3)  
Conditions for Licensing  Domestic Worker Recruitment Offices  
1. The following conditions shall be fulfilled to obtain a license for a Domestic Worker  
recruitment office:  
a. A person in a sole proprietorship  or any partner in a legal person  has never been 
convicted of  a crime involving mor al turpitude or breach of trust, a human 
trafficking crime or the crimes set forth in the Law, unless he has been rehabilitated , 
if he is sentenced to a custodial  penalty or following the lapse of one  year from the 
judgment d ate if a fine is ruled.  
b. The  sole proprietorship  or legal person shall  provide to the Ministry a bank 
guarantee in an a mount not less than, throughout the effective term of the license, 
(AED 500,000) five hundred thousand  dirhams, which shall be automatically  
renewed , or provide security as an alternative to the guarantee, a s per the 
mechanisms  set by the Ministry. The  Ministry may, as per the assessment of the  risk 
factor, request to increase the bank guarantee  amount.  The Ministry may allocate 
the guarantee  or security , in whole or in part, for the payment of any amounts Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  3 
 payable by the Domestic Worker recruitment Office to the Domestic Worker, 
Employer or the Ministry for  its failure to  carry out its obligations , its failure to 
comply  with  the instructions and decisions  issued to it or its failure to pay any fine 
that may be imposed on it. In  all cases, the  office shall replenish any shortage in the 
guarantee  amount  within (30) thirty days from the shortage date.  
c. A credit report  shall be submitted by the license applicant  and shall reflect its 
financial position , whether the license applicant is a person, sole proprietorship  or 
partners in a legal person , provided that such report is issued by the competent 
authority .  
d. In case of  combination of the activity of Mediation for recruiting Domestic Workers 
and the activity of the Temporary  Employment of Domestic Workers, a separate  
license shall be obtained for each activity, in accordance with the conditions, 
requirements  and fees required for each activity.  
e. Any  other conditions set by a resolution of the Minister  shall be met .  
2. The license issued by the Ministry to the Domestic Worker office shall be annually 
renewed, subject to the continuous fulfillment of all conditio ns required for the 
license.  
3. The Ministry may refrain from granting  a license to  the Domestic Worker recruitment 
office in the following cases:  
a. Where a licen se has been obtained and  has been  revoked or terminated by the 
Ministry for any reason whatsoever . 
b. Where a violation of the legislation in force and the  regulations applicable in the 
Minist ry is repeated by the license applicant ; and  
c. Any other cases decided by the Ministry.  
4. The  Minister  shall issue regulations on the mechanisms for licensing the practice of 
the Dom estic Worker recruitment office  activity  should the office provide its services 
via digital channels.  
5. The  license holder may not assign or sublet the license to third parties or introduce 
any change to the partners , either by addition or substitution, without obtaining the 
approval of the Ministry, as per the regulations applicable there in.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  4 
 Article (4)  
Obligations of Domestic Worker Recruitment Offices  
In addition to the obligations prescribed for Domes tic Worker recruitment offices set out 
in article s (4) and (5) of the Law  and the resolutions issued by the Ministry, they shall 
comply with the followin g:  
1. Before having a Domestic Worker recruited for employment in the State, a 
Dom estic Worker recruitment office shall:  
a. Have the Domestic Worker medically examined to ensure h is medical  fitness for 
the wo rk he will perform, in terms of his physical, mental,  and psychological  
ability, and that he does not suffer from any chronic or infectious disease , as per 
the cases identified  by the accredited medical authorities  in the State, or from any 
health conditio ns that would reduce his ability to accomplish the work . 
b. Make  the Domestic Worker aware of all conditions required by the  Employer to 
be fulfilled by the Worker, including experience and educational qualifications . 
c. Ensure  the availability of a certificate of  experience in the r equired profession  if it 
is among professions  where the State requires certain certificates, such  as nursing 
and car driving.   
d. Allow the Domestic Worker to review the job offer corresponding  to the contract 
form to be concluded between him and the Employer and  obtain his  signature  for 
approval . 
e. Provide  a certificate from the relevant authorities in the country of the Domestic 
Worker  certifying that  he does  not have criminal record s and that he is of  good 
conduct and behavior in the cases identified by the Ministry.   
f. Provide  a document pro ving that  the office deals with officially accredited  entities  
in the State from which the Domestic Worker is recruited.   
g. Provide a document stating  its direct responsibility for paying any amounts as a 
commission to facilitate the Domes tic Worker ’s arrival to the State and conclude  
the contract, without charging the worker for such amounts; and  
h. Perform  any other obligations determined by a resolution of the Minister.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  5 
  
2. Obligations Towards Recruitment Agencies Outside the State:  
a. To meet the conditions and controls set forth in memoranda of understanding 
signed by the Ministry with the s tate in which the agency is located, along with 
disclosing to the Min istry the number and detail s of Domestic W orkers allocated 
to the office.  
b. To sign a Preliminary A greement w ith Recruitment Agencies abroad providing for  
the conditions and qualifications  required to be fulfilled by the Domestic Worker, 
as well as the obligations and responsibilities  towards him.  
c. To prohibit any dealing with any Recruitment Ag ency, office,  or person or with any 
unlicensed entity abroad . In all cases, the Ministry may, based on reasons it deems 
appropriate , prevent the office from dealing with any R ecruitment Agency or any 
entity abroad .  
d. To perform a ny other obligations determined under a resolution issued by the 
Minister.  
3. Obligations To wards the Ministry:  
a. To adhere to strict confidentiality  with regard to all data and  information ac cessed 
by the office in the course of practicing its activity, and not to  use such data and 
information nor publish or provide the same to other entities without the 
Ministry’s approval.  
b. To comply with the limits of fees o f Domestic Recruitment offices prescribed by 
the Ministry for the services provided to the Employer or the Beneficiary, pursuan t 
to the provisions of the Law, and not to collect any extra  amounts.  
c. To comply with the government service fe es determined by the Cabinet for the 
services provided to clients and not to collect any extra amounts.  
d. To provide a ll services of Domestic W orkers, including the provision of service 
packages  circulated by the Ministry at the rates approved there by.  
e. To use electronic systems and software identified by the Ministry.  
f. To conclude E mployment Agreements  according to  the forms approved under the 
Ministry’s system.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  6 
 g. To draft and manage records in such  a manner as identified by the Ministry.  
h. To create a database according to the forms  and standar ds set by the Ministry, so 
that it includes full information about Empl oyers being  dealt with , their addresses 
and categories of Domestic Worke rs recruited by the office and  keep the same for 
a period not less than (10) ten years.  
i. Not to make its wo rkers available for recruitment by an Employer whose file is 
suspended in the Ministry’ s system, exc ept in c ase of Temporary Employment and 
subject to the Ministry’s approval.  
j. To perform a ny other obligations established under a resolution issued by the 
Minister.  
4. Obligations Towards Employers:  
a. To enter into  a contract between it and the Employer/Beneficiary  to govern the 
obligations pertaining to the recruitment and employment of Domestic Worke rs, 
as per the form approved in the Ministry’s system.  
b. To recruit a Domesti c Worker as set out  in the Preliminary A greement.  
c. To perform a ny other obligations established under a resolution issued by the 
Minister.  
5. Where  a Domestic Worker’s recruitment is made by designation /direct recruitment, 
the Domestic Worker recruitment office shall be exempted from the obligations set 
out in Paragraphs (b, c and g ) of Clause (1) of this article,  provided that such 
exemption does not prejudic e the public interest.  
6. The  Minister may, where neces sary, adjust the obligations set forth in this article , 
taking into account the public interest.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  7 
 Article (5)  
Procedures for Licensing Domestic Worker Recruitment Offices  and 
Renewing Their Licenses  
The Minister shall issue a resolution stating  the procedures and conditions for issuing and 
renewing  the licenses of  Domestic Worker recruitment office s, as well as the cases and 
procedures of suspension or revocation of their license s.  
 
Article (6)  
Cases of Refunding the Fees for Recruiting  the Domestic Worker to the 
Employer  
1. A Domestic Worker recruitment office shall refund to the Employer t he amount, in 
whole or in part, paid by the latter in any of the following cases:  
a. Lack  of occupational competence and lack of good conduct of the Domestic 
Worker throughout the Probation Period.  
b. In case that the Domestic Worker terminates the contract or  leaves the work in 
cases other than the ones set out in article (10) of the present Resolution .  
c. In case  that  the contract is  terminated by the Employer for non -fulfillment of the 
conditions agre ed upon in the Preliminary Agreement  or the contract con cluded 
between the Employer and the Domestic Worker recruitment office.  
d. Any other cases identified under a resolution issued by the Minister.  
2. The amount referred to in Clause (1) of this article , which shall be refunded by the 
Domestic Worker office to the Employer, sh all be calculated as follows : (total cost of 
recruitment /term of the Employment Agreement  of the Domestic Worker in months) 
x the remai ning period of the E mployment Agreement  term.  
3. Notwithstanding Clause  (2) of this article , and in case of the occurrence of any of the 
cases mentioned in Clause  (1) of this article throughout the first month of the 
Dome stic Worker ’s service, or where it is proved that the Dome stic Worker is 
physically unfit during the Probation Period, the of fice shall refund the full fees for 
recruitment to the Employer.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  8 
 4. In all the cases set out in this article, the Domestic Worker recruitment offi ce shall be 
exempted from refunding the  prescribed amount where the Domestic Worker is 
recruited by designation/direct recruitment.  
5. In addition to the Dom estic Worker recruitment office’ s obligation to refund fees for 
recruitment to the Employer, it shall  be bound to refund any government fees borne 
by the Employer if it is proved , throughout  the Probation Period , that the Domestic 
Worker is physically unfit to perform the required domestic service.  
6. The office shall refund the amounts mentioned above to the Employer within two 
weeks from the date of returning the worker to the Domestic Worker recruitment  
office or notification of his absence from work.  
7. Where  a Domestic Worker recruited by designation by name desires, throughout  the 
effective term of the first co ntract, to transfer to a new Employer, the new Employer 
shall pay to the ori ginal Employer part of the amount that had been paid by the latter 
to the Dom estic Worker recruitment office. Such amount sh all be calculate d according 
to the same formula set out in Clause (2) of this article , in addition to paying  
government fees that had been paid by the origina l Employer for the recruitment  and 
employment  of the Domestic Worker, unless otherwise agreed upon between the 
original Employer and the new Employer.  
8. If the Domestic Worker, following the renewal of his contract, desires  to transfe r to a 
new Employer, the latter  shall,  in such case , pay any government fees that had been 
paid by the original Employer to renew the contract  if such transfer is made within the 
first three months from the contract renewal, unless otherwise agreed upon between 
the original Employer and the new Employe r.  
 
Article (7)  
Arrangement of  Working Hours  and Daily Rest   
The  Employer may arrange  the Domestic Worker ’s working hours  to carry out the work  
assigned over  the day, as required by the nature of work or housework; provided that the  
daily rest period of t he Domestic Worker is not less than (12) twelve hours a day, including Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  9 
 at le ast (8) eight consecutive hours. Times spent by the Domestic Worker without work, 
break time or food time shall  not be calculated within the actual working hours.  
 
Article (8)  
Weekly Rest  
A Domestic Worker shall be entitled to one -day weekly rest to be determined as agre ed 
upon between him and the Employer. However, the Em ployer may employ the worker on 
the day o f weekly rest; provided th at the worker is entitled to another rest day alternative 
to the one he worked on or to compensation equivalent  to the wage of such day, taking 
into account that a worker may not be employed for more than two rest days in two 
consecutive weeks, unless otherwise agreed  upon . 
 
Article (9)  
Temporary Employment  and  its Conditions  
1. The provi sions of the Law shall appl y to a Domestic Worker who is employed on a 
Temporary Employment basis, with regard to governing  his relationship  with both the 
Domestic Worker recruitment office and the Beneficiary.  
2. The Temporary Employme nt shall be subject to the following conditions:  
a. The Domestic Worker recruitment office shall  be licensed pursuant to the 
provisions of the Law and its Executive Regulations.   
b. The Domestic Worker who works on the basis of Temporary Employment shall 
reside  at the W orkplace identified by the Beneficiary, unless otherwise agreed 
upon between both the Beneficiary  and the Domestic Worker recruitment office; 
and  
c. A cont ract shall be concluded between the Domestic Worker recruitment office 
and the Beneficiary , as per th e form prepared by the Ministry, and a copy thereof 
shall be delivered to the Domestic Worker, as per the mechanisms identified by 
the Ministry.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  10 
 d. A Domestic Worker recruitment office may not, in its capacity as the Employer, 
refrain from implementing  any of the obligations required from it towards the 
Domestic Worker due to the Beneficiary’s failure to fulfil  the agreement concluded 
there with. However , the office shall be responsible , jointly with the Beneficiary , 
for performing such obligations, while preserving all legal rights  of the office 
towards such Beneficiary.   
 
Article (10) 
Cases of the Domestic Worker ’s Leave of Work  
1. A Domestic Worker may leave work in t he cases indicated below, while reserving his 
rights, two weeks after  notifying  the Min istry of any of such cases, and the Employer ’s 
failure to address th e reasons for leaving the work, namely:  
a. Reduction  of his Wage below th e agreed wage indicated in the E mployment 
Agreement .  
b. Failure  of the Employer to fulfil their obligation s under the E mployment 
Agreement .  
2. A Domestic Worker ma y leave the work without notice if he is assaulted  or humiliated  
by the Employer or the Employer’s representative  or in any form of sexual assault  
punishable under the legislation  in force in the State. In all cases, a Domestic Worker 
shall report to the competent authorities  promptly after being assaulted  and serve a 
notification to the Ministry within (3) three days from the date of leaving the work.  
3. In all cases, a Domestic Worker shall return to the Domestic Worker recruitment office 
that ha d recruited him to stay therein or specify another place for staying in, al ong 
with indicating a means of communication  with him and notifying the Ministry of the 
same.  
4. In any of the above cases, and without prejudice to the worker’s right to reserve his 
rights for the period of his work, the Domestic Worker may  transfer to anot her 
Employer or leave the country, in accordance with the controls and procedures set 
under a resolution issued by the Minister.   Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  11 
 Article (11)   
Work for Third Parties  
1. A Domestic Worker may work for any person other than the employer,  or the 
Beneficiary  mentioned in the E mployment Agreement  only according to the 
procedures identified by the Ministry.  
2. Notwithstanding Clause (1) of this article , a Domestic Wor ker may be allowed to work 
with any relative of the Employer up to the  second degree, subject to the Domestic 
Worker’s consent.  
 
Article (12)  
Occupational Health and Safety Requirements  
1. The Employer and Domestic Worker recruitment offices shall inform the Domestic 
Worker, upon his employment, of his occupational  hazards and  the means of 
prevention that shall  be adopted  by him and  shall provide him wit h personal 
protective equipment against occupational  hazards and diseases, such as wears, 
gloves, shoes and other tools and means that ensure his health and physical safety. 
Moreover, the Employer shall provide necessary measures to protect the worker from  
occupational hazards and diseases.  
2. The Domestic Worker shall com ply with the instructions related to  employment 
security and safety and  shall  use preventive equipment and undertake  to exercise due 
care of such equipment in his possession . He shall not perform  an act that may cause 
failure to implement  the said instruction s or misuse or inflict harm or damage on the 
means intended to protect his health and safety.  
 
Article (13)  
Settlement of Disputes  
1. If a dispute arises out between the Domestic Worker and t he Employer and they fail  
to settle it amicably, they shall refer it to the Ministry through the channels determined 
by the Ministry.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  12 
 2. Once the Ministry receives the dispute, it shall follow the following procedures:  
a. Present the dispute to the competent department at the Ministry or any other 
entity determined by t he Ministry, which shall serve a notice to the parties to t he 
compliant at the address mentioned in the compliant file to appear before it. 
Where no address is mentioned in the compliant file, the notice shall be served to 
the address listed in the Ministry’s files.  
b. A competent legal researcher shall, after hearing the statemen ts of both parties , 
propose reconciliation according to the applicable rules in the Ministry.  
c. Where the amicable settlement between the parties to the dispute is  impossible, 
the Ministry shall refer the matter, together with a legal opinion, to the competent 
court within two w eeks from the date on which the complaint  is filed.  
d. The complainant shall keep the Ministry informed  of the matters taken place on 
the hearing and adjudication of the acti on.  
3. In all ca ses, no action may be admissible  before the competent court before the 
procedures set forth in this article are followed.  
4. The Minister may issue a resolution establishing the contro ls and procedures to be 
followed  in case that a labor  dispute causes the Domestic Worker’ s discontinuation of 
his work with the Employer .  
 
Article (14)  
Adjustment of the Domestic Worker ’s Status  
A Domes tic Worker whose work permit is  revoked or has expired shall adjust  his status or 
leave the State, pursuant to the laws, regulations and resolutions applicable in the State in 
this regard.  
 
Article (15)  
Cases of Suspension of the Employer’s File  
The  Ministry may suspend an Employer’s file in one of the following cases:  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  13 
 1. Where  the Employer commits a material breach of  its obligations established by the 
Law, the present Resolution and the reso lutions issued by the Ministry, or the 
Agreement concluded with the Domestic Worker.  
2. Failure to pay the Wage agreed upon in the Employment Agreement for more than 
two months.  
3. Where it is proved th at the Employer or on e of his family member has assaulted or 
exposed the Domestic Worker to violence or harassment.  
4. Where it is proved that a report of  absence from w ork reported by the Employer is 
invalid.  
5. Any other cases decided by the Ministry.  
 
Article (16)  
Administrative Penalties  
1. Subject  to the provisions related to the penalties set out in the Law, if the obligations 
set out in the Law and the present Resolution are breached, the Ministry may impose 
the administrative penalties set out in Schedule No. (2) attached to the present 
Resoluti on to persons or Domestic Worker recruitment offices.  
2. Persons  or offices subject to  the administrative penalties set out in Schedule No. (2) 
attached to the present Resolution may file a grievance according to the mechanisms 
approved by the Minister.   
 
Article (17)  
General Provisions  
1. The provisions of this Resolution shall apply to Agreements  to be concluded after the 
provi sions thereof enter into force and  shall apply to Agreements concluded  before 
the entry into force upon the renewal of such Agreements or residence.  
2. The Minister shall be authorized  to iss ue a resolution determining the minimum  
monthly sala ry/income of a foreign resident if he desires to recr uit or employ a 
Domestic Worker, and  he may set any other controls in this regard.   Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  14 
 Article (18)  
Repeals  
Cabin et Resolution No. (22) of 2019 Issuing the Executive Regulations of Federal Law  No. 
(10) of 2017 on Domestic Workers  is hereby repealed. Moreover,  any provision 
repugnant or contradicting the provisions of this Reso lution is hereby repealed.  
 
Article (19)  
Implementing Resolutions  
The Minister shall issue the resolutions necessary for implementing the p rovisions of this 
Resolution.  
 
Article (20)  
Publication and Enforcement   
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and  shall ente r into force as of  
the date of entry into force of the Law.  
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by us:  
On: 06 Jumada A l-Awwal 1444 A H 
Corresponding to: 30 November 2022 AD   
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  15 
 Schedule No. (1)  
Occupations of Domestic Workers  
Annexed to Cabinet Resolution No. (106) of 2022 Concerning the 
Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (9) of 2022  
on Domestic Workers  
 
Occupations of Domestic Workers    
1 Servant  
2 Sailor  
3 Janitor  
4 Herder  
5 Parking Attendant  
6 Camel Trainer  
7 Falconer  
8 Worker  
9 Housekeeper  
10 Cooker  
11 Babysitter  
12 Farmer  
13 Gardener  
14 Private Trainer  
15 Private Tutor  
16 Home Caregiver  
17 Personal Assistant  
18 Private Agronomist  
19 Chauffeur  
 
 
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  16 
 Schedule  No.  (2)  
Violations and Administrative Penalties   
Annexed to Cabinet Resolution No. (106) of 202 2 Concerning the 
Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (9) of 2022  
on Domestic Workers  
 
First: Violations of Recruitment Offices  
S N Description of the Violation  Fine in AED  
1 Failure to comply with the service package prices ap proved 
by the Ministry or enter ing into a contract outside the 
electronic systems.  AED (5,000 ) per  
case  
2 Failure to use contract forms approved by the Ministry.  AED (5,000 ) per  
case  
3 Presenting  C.V of a Domestic Worker who has committed a 
violation  or against whom a complaint about his absence 
from work is filed or enter ing into a contract with an 
Employer for  such worker .  AED (5,000 ) per  
case  
4 To enter into a contract for a Domestic Worker who fails to 
undergo the medical examination or  to fulfill  the conditions 
for residence.   AED (5,000 ) per  
case  
5 Failure to present service package prices approved by the 
Ministry at a prominent place for clients.  AED (2,000)   
6 Failure to make the Domestic Worker available to the 
Employer within the period agreed upon his recruitment for 
work from outside the Sta te.  AED (100) per day 
up to AED (1,000)  
 
7 Failure to refund the recruitment amount, in whole or in 
part,  to the Employer  within the time limit set out in the 
Regulations (two weeks from the date of returning the  
AED ( 2,000 ) per  
case  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  17 
 Domestic Worker to the Domestic Worker recruitment 
office, or from the date of reporting his absence from work).  
 
8 To entrust administrativ e or operational work of a 
Dom estic Worker recruitment office to individuals, 
company or establishment without the prior approval of 
the Ministry.   
AED (10,000)   
 
9 To collect any  additional amounts other than the ones 
prescribed pursuant to the laws, regulations and ministerial  
resolutions issued in that respect.   
AED (5,000 ) per  
case  
10 Failure to replenish  the bank guarantee amount required 
for the license within one month from the date of its 
shortage.   AED (10,000 ) per  
case  
 
11 Closure of a Domestic Worker recruitment office or 
suspension of the practice  of the activity without obtaining 
the prior approval of the Ministry.    
AED (5,000)   
12 Introduc e an a mendment to partners in the trade license 
without obtaining the prior approval of the Ministry.  AED (10,000)  
13 Provid e any commercial or government services without 
obtaining the prior approval of the Ministry.  AED (10,000)  
14 Failure to make a Domestic Worker aware of  the authorities 
competent to examine his compliant on any abuse of his 
rights or liberties.   AED (1,00 0) per 
Domestic Worker  
 
15 Failure to meet the conditions and controls set forth in  the 
memoranda of understanding signed by the Ministry with  
the states from which the Domestic Worker is recruited, or 
failure to disclose  to the Ministry the number and details  of 
the Domestic Workers allocated to the Domestic Worker 
recruitment office.   
 
AED (5,000)  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  18 
  
16 Deal with any Recruitment Agency, person, of fice or any 
other  entity unlicensed in the State or in the state from 
which the Domestic Worker is recruited, or deal with any 
foreign entity which the Ministry prohibits dealing 
therewith.   
AED (10,000)  
 
17 To enter into  a contract with an Employer whose file is 
administratively  suspended by the Ministry, apart from the 
Temporary Employment subject to the prior approval of the 
Ministry.     
AED (2,000)  
18 Failure to train the Domestic Worker using the guidance 
materials approved by the Ministry.   AED (1,000)  per 
Domestic Worker  
19 
 Failure to comply with any of the regulations, circulars, 
resolutions, undertakings and other work  manuals issued 
by the Ministry for Domestic Worker recruitment offices.  AED (5,000)  
 
Second : Violations of the Employer  
S N Description of the Violation  Fine in AED  
1 Filing  a malicious or fictitious report on the worker’s 
absence from work.  AED (5,000) per 
Domestic Worker  
 
2 Where  it is proved that  incorrect documents or data are 
submitted for obtaining a service or benefit.  Not less than AED 
(1,000)  and  not 
more than AED 
(10,000) per case  
 
 
3 Failure to comply with the approved occupational  health 
and safety requirements and health prevention methods, as 
set out in Federal Decree -Law No. (9) of 2022 on Domestic 
Workers,  and its Executive Regulations and the 
implementing  resolutions thereof, or any other legislation 
in force in the State.   Not l ess than AED 
(1,000) and not 
more than AED 
(10,000) per case  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  19 
  
4 Employing a Domestic Worker without o btaining a work 
permit for him, or failure to employ a Domestic Worker for 
whom a work permit is issued or  let him work f or third 
parties without compliance with the conditions and 
without adjusting his status.   
 AED (5,000) per 
Domestic Worker  
in breach   
 
5 Where it is proved that a Domestic Worker’s Wage is not 
paid according to the regulations and time limits set by the 
Ministry.  Not less than AED 
(500) and not 
more than AED 
(5,000) per 
Domestic Worker  
6 Where it is proved that the Employer or one of his family 
member has assaulted or exposed t he Domestic Worker to 
violence or harassment.  AED (20,000) per 
case  
 
 
7 Where  it is proved that the Domestic Worker is not 
provided with proper accommodation  or his needs are not 
provided, including  meals and proper clothes for the work 
performance, o r that the Domestic Worker  is employed  in 
an occu pation approved by the Ministry different from his 
work nature without his consent.  Not less than AED 
(1,000 ) and not 
more than AED 
(10,000 ) per 
Domestic Worker  
 
 
 
 
8 Where  it is proved that the Domestic Worker’s medical 
treatment costs are not borne, as per the health system 
applicable in the State, or that the necessary compensation 
arising from occupational injuries and diseases  is not paid , 
as per the compensation established in the pr ovisions of 
Decree -Law No. (33) of 2021 Regulating Labor  Relations, 
referred to hereinabove, and the resolutions issued in 
implementation  thereof. Such Employer’ s obligation  shall 
lapse only if the company pays the compensation set out in 
this Item.   
 
Not less than A ED 
(500 ) and not 
more than AED 
(5,000 ) per case  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 20 22 on Domestic 
Workers  20 
 9 Maintaining supporting documents of the Domestic 
Worker.  AED (500) per 
Domestic Worker  
10 Failure to register  a Domestic Worker in the Wage 
protection system, as per the mechanism issued by the 
Ministry.   AED (100) per 
Domestic Worker  
 