 
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (18) of 2024  
On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  No. (22) of 2022  
Concerning Regulating the Translation Profession  
 
The Cabinet:  
− Upon reviewing the Constitution,  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 On the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Decree -Law  No. (22) of 2022 Concerning the Regulation and 
Development of Translation Profession,  
− Upon the proposal of the Minister of Justice and the approval of the Cabinet,  
Has resolved as follows:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
The definitions stated in the aforementioned Federal Decree -Law  No (22) of 2022 
shall apply to this Resolution; otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have 
the meanings assigned to each o f them, unless the context otherwise requires:  
A means of communication used by the deaf, people 
with hearing disabilities, and those unable to 
communicate verbally. It is based on converting spoken 
words and phrases into hand and body movements.  : Sign Language  
The Director Organisational Unit concerned with the 
affairs of Translators in the Ministry.  : Managing Director  
The employee appointed in the Ministry to carry out the 
tasks of auditing and technical inspection of the work of 
Translators.  : Technical 
Inspector  
Annual Performance Assessment carried out by the 
Competent Department on the Translator work.  : Assessment   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  2 
 Federal Decree -Law  No. (22) of 2022 Concerning the 
Regulation of Translation Profession  : Decree -Law : 
 
Article (2)  
Practising the Translation Profession  
The Translation Profession may not be practised in the country except after being 
registered in the List and obtaining a licence in this regard from the Competent 
Licensing Authority.  
 
Article (3)  
List of Translators and Translation Houses  
A List shall be established in the Ministry for the Registration of Translators and 
Translation Houses, and each of them shall have a file in which everything related to 
the affairs of practising the profession of the translation shall be added.  
 
Article (4)  
Data of Translators and Translation Houses  
The List referred to in article (3) of this decision includes the following data:  
1. Name of the Translator/Translation House.  
2. Language of translation.  
3. Registration n umber and date of the Translator/Translation House.  
4. The Translator nationality.  
5. Registration expiry date.  
6. Contact information.  
7. Identity data.  
8. Names of Translators who work for the Translation House.  
9. Names of partners in the Translation House, and their details.  
10. Names of directors in the Translation House, and their details.  
11. Translation House licence number.   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  3 
 Article (5)  
Conditions for Registering Sign Language Interpreter  
Subject to the conditions stipulated in article (5) of the Decree -Law , Sign Language 
Interpreter is required to be registered in  
The List shall be as follows:  
1. To be highly competent in communicating in sign language and spoken language.  
2. To be understanding  of the deaf, their characteristics and culture.  
3. To have direct contact with deaf individuals and groups in various places, such as 
deaf clubs and events.  
4. To have diverse skills for different translation situations, such as educational, 
health, legal, tele vision, and others.  
 
Article (6)  
Review the Registration Application in the List  
The Committee shall review the Registration Application in the List in accordance with 
the following conditions and controls:  
1. Registration Application shall be submitted on th e forms prepared for this purpose.  
2. The Committee shall examine and review the submitted Applications and 
complete the necessary documents and papers, after paying the prescribed fees.  
3. The Committee shall refer Applicants for completed Registration Applications to 
take a written and oral technical test, or one of them, according to the forms 
determined by the Ministry in this regard.  
4. The Applicant for Registration shall pass the tests referred to in Clause (3) of this 
article in accordan ce with the success rates determined by the Committee.  
5. If the Applicant for Registration passes these tests according to the prescribed 
percentages, the Committee shall issue its decision to register the Applicant on the 
List. The decision shall be announc ed within (10) ten working days from the date 
of its issuance and the Applicant shall be instructed to pay the prescribed fees for 
Registration in accordance with the established mechanism.   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  4 
 6. In all cases, The Committee shall decide on the Registration Appli cation within (60) 
sixty days as of the date of its submission.  
7. Applicant with rejected Application may appeal against the resolution issued by 
the Committee before the Competent Court within (30) thirty days as of the date 
of being informed of it or the e xpiry of the period for deciding on the Application 
without a response, and the judgment issued in this regard shall be final.  
8. Applicant with rejected Application or who has not passed the required tests may 
submit a new Application after the expiry of a p eriod of not less than (6) years and 
months from the date of submitting his previous Application.  
 
Article (7)  
Controls for Using Translators and Translation Houses not Registered 
in the List  
The Competent Judicial Authority may seek the assistance of a Translator or 
Translation House who is not registered in the List, in accordance with the following 
controls:  
1. The Competent Judicial Authority shall apply to the Ministry to provide Translators 
who are proficient in the Arabic language and the language to be translated, to 
carry out translation work.  
2. Any Translators or Translation Houses not registered in the List are used if 
translation is required in a language for which there are no licensed Translators 
registered in the List.  
3. The hired T ranslator shall be fully proficient in the language to be translated from 
and into, in reading, writing, and speaking, based on the accredited certificates he 
provides proving this.  
4. The Ministry shall address foreign diplomatic missions accredited to the S tate 
within (3) three working days of receiving the request of the Competent Judicial 
Authority to provide a Translator to carry out translation work in the event that 
one of its nationals is accused in the case.   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  5 
 5. Technical Inspectors may support to carry o ut translation work, after the approval 
of the Committee.  
6. The Competent Judicial Authority shall bear the fees of the translator or the 
translation house, if it decides to seek the assistance of any of them in criminal 
claims according to their fees.  
In al l cases, the Translator shall be required to take the legal oath before undertaking 
the duties assigned to the Translator.  
 
Article (8)  
Updating Translators Skills  
The Translator shall exercise due diligence to update his skills and keep abreast of 
developments in the field of the language he is licensed to translate, by attending 
specialised courses in the field of translation and the language he is licensed to 
translate from and into, and training programmes prepared by the Ministry during the 
peri od of his Registration in the List, for no less than one course per year.  
 
Article (9)  
Cancellation of Registration and Suspension of Activity  
The Committee shall review requests to cancel Registration suspend practising the 
activity in accordance with the following procedures:  
1. The Application shall be submitted to the Committee on the form prepared for this 
purpose, provided that evidence of payment of the prescribed fee is attached to it.  
2. For the Application to be accepted, it shall be submitted by the Translator or 
Translation House at least ninety (90) days before the Registration expiration date, 
including its reasons.  
3. The Translator or Translation House shall complete all the work and obligations 
assigned to him before submitting th e Application.  
4. The Committee shall examine and review the submitted Applications and 
complete the necessary documents and papers.   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  6 
 5. In all cases, it shall be considered that the Committee shall decide on the 
Applications within (60) sixty days as of the date  of their submission.  
6. Applicant with rejected Application may appeal against the resolution issued by 
the Committee before the Competent Court within (30) thirty days as of the date 
of being informed of it or the expiry of the period for deciding on the Ap plication 
without a response, and the judgment issued in this regard shall be final.  
 
Article (10)  
Suspension from Practising the Translation Profession  
1. The Translator or Translation House registered in the List may suspend practising 
the Translation Profession whenever an obstacle prevents them from practising, in 
accordance with the following conditions and procedures:  
a. Inform the Competent Department of ceasing to practice the profession no 
less than (10) ten working days before the suspe nsion, with an explanation 
of the reason for the suspension through the means decided by the 
Competent Department.  
b. The entry in the List shall be effective on the date of notice of suspension.  
c. Pay the prescribed fee according to the established mechanism.  
2. The Committee shall examine and review the submitted Applications and 
complete the necessary documents and papers.  
3. In all cases, it shall be considered that the Committee shall decide on the 
Applications within (60) sixty days as of the date of their submi ssion.  
4. Applicant with rejected Application may appeal against the resolution issued by 
the Committee before the Competent Court within (30) thirty days as of the date 
of being informed of it or the expiry of the period for deciding on the Application 
without a re sponse. and the judgment issued in this regard shall be final.  
5. The period of suspension from practising the Translation Profession shall be 
calculated within the period of Registration in the List. The Translator or the 
Translation House may request to re -practice it when that impediment is removed,  
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  7 
 provided that the conditions for practising and the validity of their Registration 
shall be met.  
6. If the Registration expires during the period of suspension of practising the 
Translation Profession, it shall be  renewed in accordance with the provisions of 
the Decree -Law  and this resolution.  
 
Article (11)  
Hand -Over Translator ID and Stamp  
The Translator shall hand over Translator ID and Translation Stamp to the Competent 
Department in the following cases:  
1. Suspens ion from practising the profession.  
2. Cancellation of Registration.  
3. Cancellation of his Registration from the Register.  
 
Article (12)  
Annual Performance Report  
1. The Competent Department shall prepare an annual performance report to assess 
the Translator work, in terms of his general technical level in the translation work 
he has undertaken, the complaints registered against him, the extent of his 
commitment to professional development, the Translation Charter, and his 
general rating in the tech nical inspection reports, in accordance with the form 
attached to this decision.  
2. The Competent Department shall submit technical inspection reports and annual 
performance reports to the Committee to take the necessary action regarding them 
in accordance wi th its powers stipulated in article (17) of the Decree -Law . 
 
 
 
  
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  8 
 Article (13)  
Duties and Powers of Technical Inspectors  
The Minister may appoint Translators in the Ministry with experience and expertise in 
the field of direct translation for the following tasks:  
1. Review a sample of the work of Translators and Translation Houses, estimate the 
efficiency and accuracy of their work, and complete it correctly.  
2. Review complaints filed against Translators and Translation Houses and prepare 
reports on the m. 
3. Conduct urgent and sudden inspection of Translator or Translation House to 
confirm certain facts, actions or transgressions attributed to either of them, or 
related to a specific incident.  
4. Conduct periodic inspection in accordance with the technical sta ndards and 
requirements issued by the Committee.  
 
Article (14)  
Technical Inspection Procedures  
1. The Technical Inspector shall provide advice and guidance to the Translator if the 
Technical Inspector has comments, or if the Translator or Translation House 
commits some unintentional errors.  
2. The Translator or Translation House whose work has been technically inspected 
shall be informed of the comments given by the Technical Inspector in order to 
respond to them within (15) fifteen days from the date of his notice thereof, before 
the Inspector prepares his final technical report and submits it to the Director of 
the Department.  
3. The Director of the Department shall present the annual performance report and 
any other reports prepared by the Depa rtment or the Technical Inspector on the 
work of Translators and Translation Houses to the Committee to take any of the 
appropriate measures:  
a. letter of thanks to the professional Translator or Translation House for with 
no comments, and keep a copy of that  letter in their file.   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  9 
 b. Translator is subject to a training programme for improvement of his 
performance.  
c. Invite the Translator to attend special orientation meetings to address 
errors.  
d. Referral to the Disciplinary Board in cases that require it.  
 
Article (15)  
Repeals  
Cabinet Resolution No. (7) of 2014 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. 
(6) of 2012 concerning regulating the Translation Profession shall be repealed, and 
every provision that contradicts or conflicts with the provisions of this Resolution is 
repealed.  
 
Article (16)  
Publication and Entry into Force of the Resolution  
 This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and enter into force as of the 
day following the date of its publication.  
 
 
Mohammed Bin  Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us:  
On: Sha'ban  27th, 1445 H . 
Corresponding to: March 08 th, 2024  AD.  
   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  10 
 Form  attached to Cabinet Resolution No. (18) of 2024  
On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law  No. (22) of 2022  
Concerning Regulating the Translation Profession  
 
"Performance Report"  
 Licensed 
Translation 
Language:   Translator 
Name:  
 Registration Date:   Registration 
Number:  
 
Elements of Assessment  Degree  Achieved 
performance  
First: The Translator dealings with the documents 
being translated  
View the total number of translated documents, and the 
Translator level of translation in terms of strength and 
weakness.  
Extent of his commitment to transferring the content of 
documents into the translated language.   
15  
Second: Registered complaints against the 
Translator  
The number of registered complaints against the 
Translator from clients, and the decision taken regarding 
them by the Committee.   
20  
Third: The Translator commitment to professional 
dev elopment  
The extent of the Translator commitment to the plans of 
continuous and specialised training and qualification  
15   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024, On the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Concerning 
Regulating the Translation Profession  11 
 programmes decided by the Ministry and its impact on 
improving his performance.  
Fourth: The Translator behaviour  
The extent of the Translator commitment to the Code of 
Professional Conduct and his respect for the traditions 
and ethics of the Translation Profession.   
15  
Fifth: General commitment to the obligations 
imposed by the Law be Decree.  
The extent of compliance with what the federal Decree -
Law  law shall specify regarding the Translator 
obligations.   
20  
Sixth: Technical Inspection Reports  
Review the total technical inspection reports on the 
Translator work, what was recorded in them, and the 
extent of his compliance 5 with the directives of the 
competent administration and its observations 
regarding proposals to improve performance.   
15  
Total Translator Rating Scores  100   
50 Weak  51-60 
Average  61-80 Good  81-90 Very 
good  91-100 
Excellent  
 