Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Adopting the Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service in the 
Federal Government  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (79) of 2023  
Adopting the Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service 
in the Federal Government  
 
The Cabinet , 
- Upon reviewing the Constitution;  and  
- Federal Law, No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Competence of Ministries and Powers of 
Ministers, and any amendments thereto;  and  
- Federal Decree -Law  No. (49) of 2022 Concerning Human Resources in the Federal 
Government;  and  
- Based on the presentation of the Chairman of the Federal Authority for Government 
Human Resour ces, and the approval of the Cabinet;  
Has resolved as follows:  
 
Article (1) 
The Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service in the Federal Government, 
of which provisions are attached, shall be adopted.  
 
Article (2) 
Cabinet Resolution No. (15) of 2010 Adopting the Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics 
for the Public Service shall be repealed.  
 
Article  (3) 
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force as of the 
day following the date o f its publication.  
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us , 
On: 22  Dhul Hijja 1444  A.H.  
Corresponding to: 10  July  2023  AD Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Adopting the Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service in the 
Federal Government  2 
 Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service in the Federal  
Government  Annexed  to Cabinet Resolution No. (79) of 2023  
 
Objectives  
1. The Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service in the Federal 
Government shall define the ethical standards that employees must adhere to, in order to 
maintain public confidence, enhan ce integrity, prevent conflicts of interest, and protect 
the reputation of the UAE Government.  
2. This Code emphasises the shared responsibility to promote a culture of ethics and 
integrity, through cooperation between managers and employees.  
 
Scope of Application  
This Code shall apply to all employees of the Federal Entities, and the Federal Entities may 
issue detailed codes of professional conduct and ethics commensurate with the nature of their 
work.  
 
Public Servant Form  
A public servant shall be a ro le model in his commitment to work ethics, his embodiment of 
positive values, his support and inspiration to others, and his knowledge of local and global 
changes and developments, in a manner that enhances competitiveness and levels of 
performance.  
 
Guide lines  
The Code is based on ethical principles that promote integrity, professionalism, serve the 
public interest, and provides basic guidelines for the employee's commitment to work ethics 
in the Federal Government, as indicated in the Pledge of Commitment  Adhering to the 
Principles of Professional Conduct and Ethics of the Public Service, attached to this Code.  
 
Obligations of the Federal Entity  
1. Consolidating institutional values and creating a supportive work environment for the 
employee.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Adopting the Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service in the 
Federal Government  3 
 2. Raising awareness of the culture and principles of professional conduct and ethics of the 
Public Service, supervising the enforcement of the Code, and disseminating it among 
employees in the ways it deems appropriate.  
3. Granting all of its employees access to the co ntents of the Code, and ensuring their 
commitment to sign it electronically.  
4. Providing safe channels for reporting conduct inconsistent with the principles of 
professional conduct and ethics of the Public Service.  
5. Conducting an investigation of the cases r eported, taking into account privacy and 
providing protection for the reporting employee.  
6. Imposing penalties in the event that the employee is proven to have violated the principles 
of professional conduct and ethics of the Public Service, as stipulated in  the Human 
Resources Law, its Executive Regulation, and relevant laws and legislations . 
 
Obligations of the Employee  
1. Reading and adhering to the principles of professional conduct and ethics of the Public 
Service.  
2. Informing his direct supervisor or the human resources department in the Federal Entity 
of any violations of the principles of professional conduct and ethics of the Public Service 
stipulated in the Pledge of Commitment, immediately upon their occurrence, or his 
knowledge thereof.  
3. Cooperating i n the event of accountability in accordance with the official procedures and 
channels followed in the Federal Government and the relevant laws and legislations.  
 
Final Provisions  
1. The employee plays an important role in maintaining the integrity and reputat ion of the 
entity for which he works, by adhering to the principles of professional conduct and ethics 
of the Public Service. Adherence to these standards, and immediate reporting of any 
violations thereof, is necessary, because it contributes to maintaini ng public confidence in 
the Government . 
2. Non -compliance with this Code shall be dealt with seriously by the Employer, as all 
employees must abide by it, and sign the Pledge of Commitment Adhering to the 
Principles of Professional Conduct and Ethics of the P ublic Service attached to this Cod e. Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Adopting the Code of Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service in the 
Federal Government  4 
 Pledge of Commitment Adhering to the Principles of Professional Conduct 
and Ethics of the Public Service  
 
In my capacity as an employee of the Federal Government, I pledge as follows:  
1. Integrity:  I shall act with integrity, honesty, and professionalism, adhering to the highest 
ethical standards, and I shall avoid engaging in any inappropriate or unethical conduct.  
2. Compliance:  I shall review all applicable laws, systems, and policies, and any subsequent 
updates thereto, and adhere to them duly.  
3. Confidentiality:  I shall maintain the confidentiality of information and data, and shall 
only share what is authorised except after obt aining the required approvals, in accordance 
with the relevant laws and regulations.  
4. Conflict of Interest and Disclosure:  I shall avoid any situation in which my job duties 
conflict with my personal interests, and I shall disclose to the Employer any poten tial 
conflict of interest.  
5. Justice and Equality:  I shall maintain impartiality, avoid bias when performing my 
responsibilities, treat everyone fairly, and avoid showing any kind of favouritism.  
6. Diversity and Inclusion:  I shall contribute to promoting diver sity and inclusion in the 
work environment, and shall avoid any discrimination against individuals or groups.  
7. Gifts and Bribes:  I shall not accept, request, take or offer bribes, and shall not accept or 
offer any gifts unless they are in accordance with wh at is stipulated in the relevant 
legislations.  
8. Optimal Use of Government Resources:  I shall use government resources for official 
purposes only, and refrain from achieving any personal gains or benefits.  
9. Compliance with the Ethics of Using Social Media Platforms:  I shall use social media 
in a responsible and professional manner at all times, and shall avoid harming the 
reputation of the State or my Employer, subject to the relevant legislations.  
 
Acknowledgement and Approval  
I, the undersigned ___________ _________, acknowledge that I have read the Code of 
Professional Conduct and Ethics for the Public Service in the Federal Government and 
understood what is stated therein, pledging to adhere thereto so as not to fall under liability.  
 