 
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (17) of 2024  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (21) of 2022 
Regulating the Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  
 
The Cabinet : 
− Having reviewed the Constitution;  
− The Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Competences of Ministries and the 
Powers of Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Decree -Law No. (21) of 2022 Regulating the Profession of Experts before the 
Judicial Authorities; and  
− Based on the propo sal submitted by the Minster of Justice and approved by the Cabinet,  
Hereby Resolves as follows:  
 
Article (1) 
Definitions  
The same definitions  set out in the above -referenced Federal Decree -Law No. (21) of 2022 
Regulating the Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  shall be applicable to this 
Resolution . Other than that, the following words and expressions shall bear the meanings 
assigned thereto respectively, unless otherwise required by t he context:  
Ad-hoc Expert  : A qualified natural person whose name is not listed in the Roster, but who 
is working in a particular area of specialty with a federal or local 
government entity, and has professional expertise in the field of their 
work . 
Subject -
Matter Expert  : A natural person whose name is not listed in the Roster, is working in the 
private sector in a particular professional or craft field, and has sufficient 
knowledge and expertise in the field of their profession or craft .  
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  2 
 Department  
Manager  : The manager of an organizational unit concerned with the experts’ affairs 
at the Ministry . 
Decree -law  : Federal Decree -Law No. (21) of 2022 Regulating the Profession of 
Experts before the Judicial Authorities . 
 
Article (2) 
Practice of Expert Profession  
1. Only the expert or expert firms whose names are listed in the Roster may practice the expert 
profession before the judicial authorities in the State.  
2. Notwithstanding  Clause (1) of this article, the litigants may agree to have an expert or  an 
expert firm  - not listed  in the Roster  - appointed in order to draw up a report on the dispute 
brought before the competent judicial authority or on any part thereof, provided that the 
judicial authority approves their agreement. In addition, the judicial authority may engage 
experts or expert firms whose names are not listed  in the Roster.     
 
Article (3) 
Controls for Engaging Un registered  Experts and Expert Firms  
1. The judicial authority may, either sua sponte  or based on the litigants’ agreement subject to 
prior approval of the competent judicial authority,  assign an ad -hoc expert, subject -matter 
expert or expert firm not listed  in the Roster, subject to the following controls:  
a. The ad -hoc expert shall be assigned based upon a request by the competent department 
to the expert’s employer, subject to the employe r’s approval on their nomination.  
b. The unregistered  subject -matter expert or expert firm  shall be assigned based on 
nomination by the competent department, provided that the expert furnishes a proof of 
being specialized in the field of their craft or prof ession, including, among others,  a 
professional license or certificate or any other certificate of expertise.   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  3 
 c. It shall be a prerequisite for assigning an ad -hoc expert, a subject -matter expert or an 
expert firm , that the assignment occurs with regard to a field of  expert services  that is 
unclassified or un registered  in the Roster or rather in a fi eld of  experts classified in the 
Roster but the number of registered  experts is insufficient.  
d. For the non -UAE ad -hoc and subject -matter expert, they shall have a v alid residence 
permit.  
e. For the purpose of applying this article, the expert shall, before initiating their mission, 
take the legal oath before a division  of the competent court of appeal.  
f. The unregistered  ad-hoc expert, subject -matter expert or expert firm shall draw up a 
report on their technical opinion  on the subject of the dispute at issue, and may, for the 
sake of drawing up such a report, seek the assistance of the competent department . 
g. The ad -hoc experts, subject -matter experts or expert firms not listed  in the Roster may be 
included under a special classification in the Roster, subject to prior approval of the 
Committee, in order to engage them in other disputes.  
h. In all cases, any techn ical inspector may be engaged to give opinion on the subject of the 
dispute at issue in the absence of a specialized expert registered  in the Roster.  
 
Article (4) 
Roster of Experts and Expert Firms  
A roster shall be created at the Ministry for listing the names of  experts and expert firms in their 
respective areas of special ty, and each of them shall have a  separate file  that incorporates all 
matters related to the practice of the expert profession. The Roster shall include the following 
details : 
1. Name of the expert / expert firm;  
2. Area of specialty  of the expert / expert firm;  
3. Nationality of the expert;  
4. Registration Number ; 
5. Registration Date;   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  4 
 6. Registration Expiry Date;  
7. Contact Details;  
8. ID details; and  
9. Names of the experts hired by the expert firms and their respective nationalities.  
 
Article (5) 
Applications for Registration  in the Roster  
1. The expert shall submit the application for registration  in the Roster to the competent 
department on the relevant form, accompanied by the following documents:  
a. For the UAE national, a c opy of the ID card; and for non -UAE national, a copy of the ID 
card, passport and a val id residence permit in the UAE ; 
b. A certificate issued by the competent medical authorities in the State to prove medical 
fitness;  
c. A certificate of good conduct  and reputation  to be issued by the competent authorities in 
the State;  
d. A copy of the academic qualification certificate  issued by a recognized university or higher 
institute in the State  in the field of  expert services  intended for registration , subject to due 
authentication and equivalency. Such a certificate shall be issued in Arabic, but if issued 
in a foreign language, a certified legal translation into Arabic shall be provided.  
e. A certificate of experience which establishes that the registra tion applicant is qualified in 
the area of specialty  after getting the academic qualification certificate, and 
demonstrating the relevant details of the applicant’s experience, which shall not be less 
than five (5) years for the UAE nationals and  fifteen (15) years for the non -UAE nationals . 
Such a certificate shall be issued in Arabic,  but if issued in a foreign language, a certified 
legal translation into Arabic shall be provided . 
f. A written approval by the applicant’s employer or by the holder o f a valid business license  
in the same area of specialty  intended for registration  or practicing under such a license.   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  5 
 2. The local expert firm shall submit the application for registration in the roster to the 
competent department on the relevant for m, accompanied by the following documents:  
a. A copy of the valid license issued by the competent licensing authority;  
b. A copy of a proof of registration of the firm’s supervising manager in the Roster;  
c. The names and registration numbers of the firm’s experts , provided that it has at least four 
(4) experts.  
d. Details of the specialties for which the firm is intended to be registered in the roster, 
provided that they do not exceed four (4) specialties.  
3. The international expert firm shall submit the applica tion for registration in the roster to the 
competent department on the relevant form, accompanied by the following documents : 
a. A copy of the valid license issued by the competent licensing authority;  
b. A copy of the valid license of its headquarters outside the State, in addition to valid 
licenses of at least  two of its branches in different countries;  
c. A certificate or any official document  issued by the competent authority establishing that 
the firm has  had experience of at least ten (10) years in the areas of specialty intended for 
registration;     
d. A copy of a proof of registration of the firm’s supervising manager in the Roster;  
e. The names and registration numbers of the firm’s experts, provided that it has at least f ive 
(5) experts  residing in the State . 
f. Details of the specialties for which the firm is intended to be registered in the roster, 
provided that they do not exceed f ive (5) specialties . 
4. The competent department shall present the applica tion accompanied by the documents and 
instruments referred to in Clauses 1, 2 and 3 of this article to the Committee for consideration 
according to the mechanism set forth in article (6) of this Resolution.  
 
 
 
  
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  6 
 Article (6) 
Registration Application  Examination Procedures  
1. The Committee shall scrutinize  the application for registration of every expert through 
scrutinizing all the data and documents attached therewith, reviewing the test set by the 
Ministry for the expert and the score earned by the expert concerned according to the list of 
scores set by the Committee for every specialty. The Committee shall then make a decision to 
approve or reject the registration appl ication.  
2. The Committee shall scrutinize  the application for registration of every expert firm through 
scrutinizing all the data and documents attached therewith, reviewing the documents and 
curriculum vitae of the firm’s experts  and assessing the extent of their fulfillment of the 
requirements for registration under the intended category of expert services . The Committee 
shall then make a decision to approve or reject the registration application . 
3. If the Committee approves the registr ation of the expert or expert firm, as the case may be, in 
the roster, the approval shall be communicated to the expert or expert firm concerned by the 
competent department , and the latter shall be provided with the following details:  
a. The address and locat ion of the office from which the  registration applicant intends to 
carry out the profession , with the exception of the public employee.  
b. Provide a valid insurance policy against liability for professional errors,  to be issued by an 
insurer licensed to operate in the State, unless the expert’s liability is covered by the 
insurance policy of the expert firm at which the expert works.  
c. Payment of the  prescribed fees according to the applicable mechanism.  
9. The competent department, in coordination with the judicial institute, instruct the expert to 
attend a specialized training course, according to its relevant training plan, before the expert starts 
to practice the profession of expert.                  
 
 
 
      
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  7 
 Article (7) 
Roster Registration Term and  Registration Renewal Applications  
1. The expert and the expert firm shall each be registered in the Roster for a renewable term of 
three (3) years, provided that the registration renewal application shall be submitted at least 
thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date of the registration, according to the same conditions 
applicable to the first -time registration.  
2. No new tasks shall be assigned to the expert or the expe rt firm during the period between the  
expiry date of registration of either of them and the renewal date of such registration.  
3. Failure to submit a registration renewal application after the lapse of ninety (90) days 
following the expiry date of registration shall give rise to removal of registration from the 
Roster.    
4. The renewal application shall be subject to the same procedures set forth in articles 5 and 6 
of this Resolution.  
 
Article (8) 
Practice of Expert Profession Through a Licensed Expert Firm  
1. The expert shall practice the expert profession through an expert firm licensed by the 
competent licensing authority in the State to carry out expert services as per the following 
conditions:  
a. The expert firm’s license shall cover the same specialty  through which the expert intends 
to carry out the expert  activities; and  
b. The expert’s name shall not be listed in any other expert firm.  
2. The Committee shall issue a decision establishing the controls and procedures of transferring 
the expert from one expert firm to another expert firm.  
3. The provisions of this article shall not apply to an expert who is a public employee.  
    
   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  8 
 Article (9) 
Deregistration and Suspension  of Professional Practice  
The Committee shall scrutinize  the applications for deregistration and suspension of practicing 
the profession in accordance with the following controls and procedures:  
1. The application shall be submitted to the Committee on the relevant form and shall be 
accompanied by a proof of payment of all fees due.  
2. For the application to be approved, it shall be submitted by the expert or the expert firm at 
least ninety (90) days prior to the expiry date of registration, and shall include the relevant 
reasons . 
3. The expert or expert firm shall finalize all the activities and obligations assigned thereto before 
submitting the application.  
4. The Committee shall consider and scrutinize th e applications submitted and shall ensure 
fulfillment of the necessary documents and requirements.  
5. Under all circumstances, the Committee shall decide on such applications within sixty (60) 
days following their submission date.  
6. An applicant, whose applicat ion is rejected, may challenge the committee’s decision before 
the competent court within thirty (30) days following the date of notification thereof or 
following the expiration of the time limit set for deciding on the application with no reply 
made . The court’s judgment in this respect shall be final.     
 
Article (10) 
Ceasing to Practice the Expert Profession  
1. The expert or expert firm, as the case may be, may  cease to practice the expert profession 
where either  has any impediment that would prevent it from practicing the same, according 
to the following conditions and procedures:  
a. The competent department shall be notified of the discontinuance of practicing the 
profession, along with the discontinuance reasons.   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  9 
 b. Registration in the Roster shall be valid on the discontinuance  notification date.  
c. The prescribed fee shall be paid according to the applicable mechanism.  
2. The Committee shall consider and scrutinize the applications submitted and sh all ensure 
fulfillment of the necessary documents and requirements.  
3. Under all circumstances, the Committee shall decide on such applications within sixty (60) 
days following their submission date.  
4. An applicant, whose application is rejected, may challenge the committee’s decision before 
the competent court within thirty (30) days following the date of notification thereof or 
following the expiration of the time limit set for deciding on the application with no reply 
made. The court’s judgment in this respec t shall be final.  
5. The duration of discontinuance of practicing the profession shall be deemed part of the roster 
registration period, and an application for resuming practice of the profession may be 
submitted when such an impediment ceases to exist, provi ded that the profession practice 
requirements are satisfied and the registration is still valid.     
6. If the registration of an expert or an expert firm expires within the profession practice 
discontinuance period, the registration shall be renewed according to the provisions of both 
the Decree -Law and this Resolution.  
 
Article (11) 
Annual Performance Report  
1. The competent department shall draw up an annual performance report to assess the 
performance of the expert or expert firm, according to the Form No. (1) attached with this 
Resolution, including the following  aspects:  
a. Dealing with the expert files and performance thereon;  
b. The complaints filed against the expert or expert firm ; 
c. The extent of commitment to professional development;  
d. The extent of compliance with the Expert’s Code of Conduct; and  
e. The overall assessment on technical inspection reports   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  10 
 2. The competent department may as sess the performance of the expert or expert firm on every 
task entrusted to them based on meetings, opinion polls or any other assessment tool that 
targets the parties to the case, and shall include the assessment findings  in the annual 
performance report  referred to in Clause (1) of this article.  
3. The competent department shall submit both the technical inspection reports and annual 
performance reports to the committee so that the latter would take the necessary actions 
thereon according to its powers set forth in article (19) of the Decree Law.  
 
Article (12) 
Appointment of Technical Inspector  
1. The Minister may appoint Experts with knowledge and experience at the Ministry to perform 
Expert Services in cases of a special nature, audit and technical inspection over the registered 
Experts’ work and follow up on their reports in the cases assigned the reto, in cooperation of 
the Judicial Inspection Department at the Ministry.  
2. The appointment of the technical inspector referred to in Clause (1) of this article shall be 
subject to the following controls:  
a. The technical inspector  shall have practiced the expert profession before the Courts of the 
State for at least one year for the UAE national and five (5) years for the non -UAE 
nationals.  
b. The technical inspector  shall not have practiced any expert duties beyond the scope of the 
expert profession at the Ministry.   
 
Article (13) 
Technical Inspector ’s Functions and Powers  
1. The technical inspector shall perform the following functions:  
a. Review the procedural aspects conducted by the expert in the course of drawing up the 
expert’s report, such as the notification, expert meetings, preparation of minutes of  
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  11 
 meetings and reports; assess the expert’s familiarity with the expert profession’s duties 
before the courts; and assess the expert’s compl iance w ith the time period  for completing 
the task and submitting the report, based on the dates of referral and submission of the 
report and comparing the same to the magnitude of the task entrusted to the expert.  
b. Attend the expert meetings held by the ro ster experts in order to assess the skills of their 
management of the meetings and commitment to time.  
c. Scrutinize the reports  drawn up by the expert and assess their efficiency and fulfillment of 
the relevant requirements, and identify the extent of the ex pert’s compliance with the 
preliminary judgment rendered by the competent court on referral to the technical 
inspector .    
d. Consider the technical conclusion drawn by the expert and identify whether the Court 
relied upon the same or not.  
2. The technical inspector  shall draw up an assessment report on the expert’s performance 
according to Form No. (2) attached with this Resolution, and shall submit the same to the 
Department Manager.   
 
Article (14) 
Surprise  Technical Inspection  
The technical inspector may, based on the Department Manager’s instructions, conduct an urgent 
and surprise inspection on an expert or expert firm in order to verify particular incidents, acts or 
irregularities attributed to either of  them or in relation to a particular incident, and shall draw up 
a report on such a task and submit the same to the Department Manager.  
    
   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  12 
 Article (15) 
Technical Inspection Procedures  
1. The technical inspector  shall provide advice and guidance to the expert  in the event that the 
former detects any observations which demonstrate that the expert is unaware of certain 
procedures or has unintentionally committed certain errors.   
2. The expert, whose work has been inspected, shall be made aware of the observations 
detected by the technical inspector in order to respond to the same within fifteen (15) days 
following the date of n otification , and before the inspector draws up and submits the final 
inspection report  to the Department Manager.  
3. The Department Manager shall present both the surprise technical inspection report and the 
final technical inspection report on the expert’s work to the Committee in order for the latter 
to take any of t he appropriate actions:  
a. Send a “Thank You” letter to the committed expert against whom no negative 
observations are  detected, and a copy of such a letter shall be kept in the expert’s file;  
b. Instruct the expert to undergo a training program to improve his performance;  
c. Invite the expert to attend special guidance meetings for rectifying his errors;  
d. Draw the expert’s attention to the observations detected;  
e. Send a written warning to the expert, and a copy of such a warning shall be kept in the 
expert’s file; or  
f. Take any other appropriate action to cover the observations recorded in the technical 
inspection repo rt. 
 
Article (16) 
The Implementing Resolutions  
The Minister shall issue the necessary resolutions for implementing the provisions of this 
resolution.  
   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  13 
 Article (17) 
Repeals  
The Cabinet Resolution No. (6) of 2014 concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. 
(7) of 2012  Regulating the Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities, together with all 
provisions that contradict or are repugnant to the provisions of this Resolution, shall hereby be 
repealed.   
 
Article (18) 
Publication and Entry Into Force  
This Resolution  shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force as on the day 
following its publication date.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohamed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
 
Issued by us : 
On: Sha’ban  27th, 1445 H . 
Corresponding to: March 8, 2024  AD.  
   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  14 
 The Forms attached with Cabinet Resolution No. (17) of 2024  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (21) of 2022 
Regulating the Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  
 
Form No. (1): Performance Report  
Expert’s Name:   Type of Expert 
Services :  
Registration No.   Registration Date:   
 
Assessment Elements  Score  Performance 
Achieved  
First: The Expert’s dealing with the Expert Services Files  
The total expert services  reports submitted by the expert,  the 
number of timely -completed reports, the reports submitted late by 
the expert  and the reasons for such delay, and the levels of such 
reports in terms of strength and weakness.   20  
Second: Complaints filed against the expert  
The number of complaints filed against the expert by either litigant 
in relation to the cases on which final judgments  have been 
rendered, the decisions made on such complaints by the committee, 
and the expert assessment findings from the perspective of the 
parties to the case based on the meetings, opinion polls or any other 
assessment tool.  
 
 
 
 25   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  15 
 Third: The expert’s commitment to professional development  
How far  the expert is committed to continuing and specialized 
training and qualification program plans set by the competent 
department, and the impact of the same on improving their 
performance.   15  
Fourth: The expert’s conduct  
How far the expert is compliant with the Code of Professional  
Conduct and respects the norms and ethics of the expert profession  15  
Fifth: Technical Inspection Reports  
The average scores earned by the expert  as per the reports of 
technical inspection on their work, and the extent of the expert’s 
compliance with the competent department’s observations and 
directions on performance improvement proposals.  25  
Total scores earned by the expert  100   
50 Poor  51-60 Average  61-80 Good  81-90 
Very 
Good  91-100 
Excellent  
 
   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  16 
 The Forms attached with Cabinet Resolution No. (17) of 2024  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (21) of 2022 
Regulating the Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  
 
Form No. (2): Technical Inspection Report  
Expert’s Name:   Type of Expert 
Services :  
Registration No.   Registration Date:   
The Court:   Case No.:   
 
Assessment Elements  Score  Performance 
Achieved  
First: The Procedural Aspects  
1. Compliance with the dates and legal procedures as to the 
notices , communications, attendance of the parties 
concerned or their legal representatives,  hearing the witness 
statements, the organization and regularity of minutes of 
meetings.   15  
2. Commitment to timely submission of the expert’s report 
after careful review of the documents and memoranda and  
fulfillment of the task elements according to the preliminary 
judgment.   5  
Tota l   
Second: Technical Aspects  
1. Full understanding of  the task’s subject and setting the 
search steps from the first hearings.  10   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  17 
 2. Identifying the required documents and the way of 
scrutinizing them and recording their contents in the 
minutes, and whether the content of all documents 
submitted by the parties is recorded in the report.  15  
3. The level of making discuss ions with the liti gants  as to the 
merits of the dispute in order to fulfill the task elements, 
conduct the inspections and hearing the witness statements.   10  
4. The extent of the expert’s familiarity with the laws and 
resolutions that regulate the expert ’s work  and 
implemen tation of their relevant procedures.  10  
5. The ability to conclude the facts and identify areas of dispute  
to eventually reach the results and true facts of the case.   10  
6. The extent of compliance with the general framework of 
forms set by the Department for drawing up the reports  5  
Total  60  
 
   
Federal Cabinet Resolution of 2024 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law of 2022 Regulating the 
Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  18 
 The Forms attached with Cabinet Resolution No. (17) of 2024  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (21) of 2022 
Regulating the Profession of Experts before the Judicial Authorities  
 
Form No. (2): Technical Inspection Report  
Assessment Elements  Score  Performance 
Achieved  
Third:  Professional Conduct   
1. The extent of cooperation with the experts and teamwork in 
the tripartite committee cases, and compliance with the 
professional ethics and norms.   10  
2. How far the expert deals properly with the litigants and 
parties concerned and keeps confidentiality of  the 
information  10  
Total  20  
Total expert assessment scores  100   
50 Poor  51-60 Average  61-80 Good  81-90 
Very 
Good  91-100 
Excellent  
 
 