Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Concerning Full -Time Self -Employment Leave for  Federal Government Employees  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (12) of 2023  
Concerning the Freelance W ork Lea ve for Empl oyees  
of the Federal Government  
 
The Cabinet ,  
- Having reviewed:  
- The Constitution;  and  
- Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning  the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of Ministers, 
as amended;  and  
- Federal  Law No. (7) of 1999 Promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law, as amended; 
and  
- Federal  Decree -Law No. (49) of 2022 Concerning  Human Resources in the Federal  
Government;  and  
- Based on  the Proposal  of the Chairman of  the Federal  Authority for Government Human 
Resources, and the Cabinet ’s Approval thereof ,  
Hereby r esolves as follows : 
 
Article (1)  
For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Resolution,  and  unless the context requires 
otherwise,  the following words and expressions shall have the meanings assigned thereto 
respectively:  
Federal Entity  : Any ministry established in accordance with Federal Law No. (1) of 
1972 concerning the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended, as well as any authority, institution or 
regulatory agencies affiliated to the Federal Government.  
Head of the 
Federal Entity  : The Minister, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the He ad of the 
Entity, or the like, as the case may be.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Concerning Full -Time Self -Employment Leave for  Federal Government Employees  2 
 Employee  : The national employee who occupies one of the positions mentioned 
in the budget of the Federal entity, exclusive of temporary or part -time 
employment contracts.  
Citizen  : A person who holds the nationality of the United Arab Emirates.  
Authority  : The Federal Authority for Government Human Resources.  
Leave  : The full -time self -employment leave.  
 
Article (2)  
Scope of Application  
This Resolution shall apply to the Federal  Entities, except for companied owned by the Federal  
Government.  
 
Article (3)  
The Authority Competent to Grant the Leave  
The Head of the Federal  Entity may grant the leave to the employee in accordance with the 
conditions and controls set forth in this  Resolution.  
 
Article (4)  
Conditions and Control s for  Granting the Leave  
In order for the leave to be granted,  the following conditions shall be met:  
1. The employee’s purpose of the leave shall be to establish his economic enterprise  in the 
private sector, manage an existing enterprise  or participate with others in establishing an 
economic enterprise . 
2. The employee shall  obtain  the necessary licenses for his economic enterprise  from the 
competent authorities in the State , has documents proving that he has initiated or is initiating 
the procedures necessary for obtain ing the required licenses, or prove  that he has a previous Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Concerning Full -Time Self -Employment Leave for  Federal Government Employees  3 
 enterprise  that  he wishes to manage by himself or is a partner with others in an economic 
enterprise . 
3. The criteria contained in the manuals  issued by the Authority in coordinati on with the 
Ministry of Economy  shall be met.  
4. The percentage or number prescribed by the Federal  Entity to grant its employee this leave 
shall be complied with as determined by the Authority . 
5. The employee shall have obtained a performance evaluation not less than 2 or  its equivalent 
by his employer . 
6. The employee's total period of service in the entities he has worked for ( Federal  or local) shall 
not be less than (5) five years . 
7. The employee shall have performed the national service or have  evidenc e of his status.  
8. The employee shall not be committed to  service for his employer due to  dispatch  on a study 
mission, unless the employer decides otherwise.  
9. The employee  shall  satisf y any other additional conditions or controls set by his employer.  
10. The employee shall undertake not to use the channels , electronic means,  or other means 
available to his employer to promote his economic enterprise.  
 
Article (5)  
The Term of the Leave and Financial Allocations  
The term of the leave shall be one year within which the employee shall receive (50%) of his total 
salary , exclusive of  the bonuses a nd allowances associated with the job.  
 
Article (6)  
The Number of Employees Eligible for Obtaining the Leave  
The Authority shall specify the number or ratio of the employees eligible for the leave on an 
annual basis at the level of the Federal  Government in accordance with the interest of work.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Concerning Full -Time Self -Employment Leave for  Federal Government Employees  4 
 Article (7)  
Duties of Employees  
The employee shall  continue in his workplace after obtaining  the approval of the leave for a 
period of not less than the notice period prescribed for his job grade according to the contract 
concluded with him, provided that all  the tasks assign ed to him are handed over to a nother 
employee  during such period, and such period is not  included in the leave period.  
The head of the Federal  Entity or whomever he authorizes may cancel or reduce the 
aforementioned period, as required by the interest  of work in the Federal  Entity . 
 
Article (8)  
Termination of the Leave  
The leave period shall expire in the following cases :  
1. Upon expiration  of the approved  leave period;  or 
2. At the request of the employee and the approval of the head of the Federal Entity or any 
person authorized thereby . 
 
Article (9)  
Combined Leaves  
The employee may combine this leave with the leave without pay and annual leave.  
 
Article (10)  
General Provisions  
1. During the leave period, the employee shall be subject to the provisions of Law of Human 
Resources in the Feder al Government and its Executive Regulations,  and all the resolutions 
issued based thereon.  
2. During the leave, the employee shall not be entitled to the annual leave or any type of 
promotion, incentives, bonuses , or any other type of leave or promotions.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 23 Concerning Full -Time Self -Employment Leave for  Federal Government Employees  5 
 3. Official holidays or any other holidays  during the leave period  shall be considered as part of 
it and the employee shall not be granted an extension or compensation therefor . 
4. The employee's participation in retirement shall continue throughout the leave peri od where 
the leave period shall be  considered  as a continuous per iod of service of the employee. 
Further,  the employee's monthly retirement deduction shall continue on the basis of 
calculating the employee's contribution salary before obtaini ng the leave, and the employee 
shall assume  his contribution rate . The employer shall transfer  all the monthly contributions 
due from him to the General Pension and Social Security Authority on the scheduled dates.  
5. After the end of the leave period, the employee shall return  to his original job in the F ederal 
Entity , or to any other job approved by the employer, as required by the interest  of work . 
 
Article (11)  
Implementing Resolutions  
The Chairman of the Authority shall issue the resolutions and manuals  necessary for the 
implementation of this Resolution. To this end,  he may amend the conditions and controls 
contained in this Resolution as  required by the interest of work in the Federal  Government . 
 
Article (12)  
Publi cation  and Enforcement  
This Resolution  shall be pu blished in the Official Gazette  and  shall  enter into force  as of  
01/01/2023 . 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al -Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued  by Us  
On: 10 Shaaban 1444 A .H. 
Corresponding to : 02 March 2023 AD  