 
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  1 
 Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  
on Human Resources in the Federal Government  
 
I, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan                                                                     UAE President,  
− Upon reviewing the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Competences of Ministries and the Powers 
of Ministers and any amendments thereto;  
− -Federal Law No. (7) of 1999 Promulgating Pensions and Social Security Law, and any 
amendments thereto;  
− Federal Law by Decree No. (11) of 2008 Concerning Human Resources in the Federal Government, and any amendments thereto;  
− Federal Law by Decree No. (2 6) of 2019 Concerning Public Finance;  
− Federal Law by Decree No. (47) of 2021 Concerning the Unified General Rules for Work 
in the UAE; and  
− Based on the proposals by the Minister of State for Government Development and the 
Future, and the approval of th e Council of Ministers,  
Have promulgated the following Law by Decree:  
  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In applying the provisions of this Law by Decree, the following words and expressions shall 
have the meanings assigned to each of them, unless the context stipulates otherwise:  
State  : The Council of Ministers of the United Arab Emirates  
Cabinet  : The Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  2 
 Federal Government  : The Government of the United Arab Emirates  
Federal Entities  : Any ministry established in accordance with Federal 
Law No. (1) of 1972 C oncerning the functions of 
ministries and the powers of ministers, and its 
amendments, as well as any federal authority, 
institution or regulatory bodies affiliated with the 
federal government . 
Chairman of the 
Federal Entity  : The Minister, the Chairman o f the Board of Directors 
(BOD), the Head of the Entity, or the like, as the case 
may be.  
Authority  : The Federal Authority for Government Human 
Resources (FAHR)  
Competent 
Authority  : The authority entrusted with appointment powers  
Human Resources Department  : 
The administrative unit concerned with human 
resources in the federal entity  
 
Employee  : A person who occupies a position in the federal entity 
according to the human resources mechanisms and 
procedures approved by the federal government . 
Citizen  : A natural person who holds the nationality of the 
United Arab Emirates . 
General cadre  : Employees of the federal entities who are subject to unified grade and salary scale
s approved by the 
Council of Ministers by Resolution No. (23) of 2012  
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  3 
 or any subsequent amendments thereto.  
Basic Salary  : The salary determined for the beginning of the job 
grade scale and any increases thereof . 
Gross salary  : The basic salary in additi on to the approved bonuses 
and allowances that the employee receives . 
Year : The calendar year  
Month  : A unit of time of thirty days 
Working day : The official working day  
Employment 
Contract  : The contract that shall regulate the job relationship 
between the employee and any federal entity  
Notice period  : The notice period specified in the employment 
contract, which requires both parties to abide by the 
contract in case eit her of them wishes to terminate it . 
Line Manager  : The person in charge of the organisational unit in 
which the employee works . 
Medical Authority  : Any federal or local government entity concerned 
with health affairs or any private health facility 
licensed to provide health services in the State  
Medical Committee  : The medical committee to be formed by a  resolution 
of the Minister of Health and Community Protection  
  
 
    
  
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  4 
 Article (2) 
Scope of Application  
1. The provisions of this Law by Decree shall apply to civil servants in federal entities, 
including entities whose establishm ent legislation stipulates the existence of 
independent human resources regulations.  
2. Federal entities and their employees shall be excluded from the application of the 
provisions of this Law by Decree, that shall be excluded by a resolution of the Cou ncil of 
Ministers, provided that the exception resolution shall specify the provisions and 
obligations of these entities, with the obligation of these entities to provide the following 
data to the human resources working for them, including wages and salar ies and all 
procedures related to human resources, by linking with the laws approved by the FAHR.  
 
Article (3) 
Human Resources Management Tasks  
1. The Human Resources Department in the federal entities shall implement and apply the 
provisions stipulated herein and any resolutions or regulations issued for its implementation.  
2. The organisational units concerned with each federal entity shall refer  to this 
Department in all technical matters related to human resources.  
3. The Human Resources Department in the federal entity shall refer to the FAHR in matters it encounters when implementing the provisions thereof and the resolutions and regulations  issued for its implementation.  
4. The concerned organisational units of the federal entity shall abide by the principles and policies stipulated herein and ensure that they shall be applied to employees in a fair and 
equal manner, with the aim of creati ng a work environment that stimulates 
performance.  
 
 
 
  
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  5 
 Article (4) 
Organisational Structure  
Federal entities shall have their own organisational structures that are commensurate with 
their compet ences and needs, and shall be approved by the Council of Ministers. A 
resolution by the Council of Ministers shall determine the mechanisms for preparing, 
approving and amending such structures.  
 
Article (5) 
Human Resource Planning and Job Budgeting  
1. Within its general budget, each federal entity shall have an annual human resources 
budget commensurate with its approved organisational structure.  
2. The Executive Regulation herein shall define all aspects related to planning human resources and approvi ng their budget in accordance with the financial rules in force in 
the State.  
Article (6) 
Recruitment Patterns  
1. Recruitment in federal entities shall be according to one of the following employment patterns:  
a. Full -time:  Working for one federal entity for the full daily working hours throughout 
the official working days, whether from the workplace, remotely, or in a hybrid work 
mode based on the employment contract or what is agreed upon between the federal entity and the  employee.  
b. Part -time:  Working for a federal entity for a specific number of working hours or 
days scheduled for work, whether from the workplace, remotely, or in a hybrid work 
style, based on the employment contract or what shall be agreed upon between the 
federal entity and the employee.  
c. Temporary work:  The work whose implementation nature requires a specific 
period, or it focuses on work in itself and ends with its completion.  
d. Flexible work:  The work whose hours or working days change accor ding to the  
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  6 
 volume of work and the economic and operational variables at the employer, and 
the employee may work for the employer at variable times according to the working 
conditions.  
2. It is permissible, based on the FAHR recommendation, by a resoluti on of the Council of 
Ministers - to amend the employment patterns mentioned in this Article, add other 
patterns, or cancel any of them.  
3. The Executive Regulations herein shall specify the provisions for each type of 
employment mentioned in this Article, the conditions for appointment thereto, the types 
of contracts related to each of them, their forms, their durations, and any other aspects 
related to employment in the federal government, as well as the cases in which it is 
permissible to combine more t han employment pattern with more than one employer 
and its controls.  
 
Article (7) 
The Appointing Authority 
Appointment to jobs in federal entities shall be according to the following:  
1. By a federal decree based on the approval of the Council of Minis ters for jobs at the rank 
of under -secretary, director general, or the like.  
2. By a resolution of the Council of Ministers for jobs at the rank of assistant 
under -secretary, executive director, or the like.  
3. By a resolution of the head of the federa l entity or whomever, he delegates for the rest of 
the jobs and other grades.  
  
Article (8) 
Appointment to Jobs  
1. Nationals of the State shall have priority in being appointed to any of the vacant jobs at 
the federal authorities. Non- nationals may be appointed in the absence of citizens who 
meet the conditions and requirements of the vacant job.  
2. It is not permissible to appoint employees who have some marital or kinship relationship  
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  7 
 in the federal entity except wi thin the limits of the conditions specified by the Executive 
Regulation herein.  
3. Discrimination between persons on the basis of race, colour, sex, religion, national or 
social origin, or disability, which has the effect of impairing equality of opportu nity or 
impairing equality in obtaining or maintaining employment and enjoyment of its rights, 
shall be prohibited. Discrimination is prohibited in jobs with the same job functions. The 
measures taken by the federal government concerning benefiting from th e capabilities 
of Emirates cadres and enhancing their competitiveness in the federal entities shall not 
be considered discrimination.  
  
Article (9) 
Probationary Duration 
1. The Employee appointed for the first time shall be subject to a probationary duration of (6) six months, which can be extended for a similar period if the employee performance during the first period is low. The Council of Ministers may exempt or reduce that period 
for those appointed at the rank of under -secretary, general manager,  or the like in the 
federal entities.  
2. By a competent authority resolution for the appointment, the Employee transferred from 
an external party may be subjected to the probationary period referred to in Clause (1) of this Article.  
3. The Line Manager shall conduct a careful follow -up to evaluate the performance and 
behaviour of the Employee regularly, as determined by the Executive Regulations herein.  
4. During the probationary duration, the service of the Employee may be terminated if it is 
proved that he is incompetent or unfit to carry out his job duties or because of his poor performance by a resolution of the authority concerned with the appointment, in 
accordance with the approved mechanisms, provided that he shall be given a no tice 
period of not less than (5) five working days.  
5. An Employee may resign from his job during the probationary duration, provided that he 
shall notify his Employer through his direct supervisor within a period of no less than (5) 
five working days.   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  8 
 Article (10) 
Scale and Salary Scales  
1. All grade and salary scales of federal entities shall be approved by the Council of 
Ministers as follows:  
a. As for the scales of grades and salaries of the general staff, they shall be proposed by 
the FAHR in coordination with the Ministry of Finance and submitted to the Council 
of Ministers for approval.  
b. As for the scales of grades and salaries of other cadres, they shall be proposed by the 
concerned authority and submitted to the Council of Ministers after reviewing by the 
FAHR and the Ministry of Finance.  
2. Upon his appointment, the Employee shall be granted a starting salary equal to the grade for the  job for which he is appointed. He may also be given a higher salary according to 
what is determined by the Executive Regulations herein in the event that he has the 
more elevated experience, qualifications or skills and in accordance with the controls 
and  mechanisms specified by the job evaluation and description law or any other 
supported systems.  
3. The gross salary shall be approved within the grades and salaries scale. 
4. The federal entities shall abide by the scale of grades and salaries approved by them in 
accordance with the provisions herein. No exceptions or amendments may be made to 
it, or any new bonuses, allowances, bonuses, annual financial grants, or other 
amendments may be approved except after the approval of the Council of Ministers.  
5. The scales of grades, salaries, and allowances approved by the federal entities prior to the entry into force of the provisions herein shall continue to work, and no amendment may be made to them except by a resolution of the Council of Ministers.  
  
 
  
   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  9 
 Article (11)  
The impact of appointment and the minimum salary of a national employee  
The Employee shall be entitled to the salary of the position for which he is appointed as of 
the date of commencing work. The Council of Ministers may issue a resoluti on specifying 
the minimum gross salary for national employees.  
  
Article (12) 
Retirement of Citizen Employees  
1. The Citizen Employee shall be registered in the retirement programme in effect with the General Pensions and Social Security Authority.  
2. The monthly subscriptions of the Insured National Employees shall be deducted for the purpose of transferring them to the General Pensions and Social Security Authority in accordance with the legislations issued in this regard.  
  
Article (13) 
Transfer, Ass ignment, Secondment and Borrowing  
1. An Employee may be transferred from a federal entity to another federal entity or a local entity without prejudice to his financial entitlements unless he agrees to the transfer or 
the transfer is at his request, and he may not be transferred to the private sector except at 
his request.  
2. The Employee may be delegated within the federal entity or to another federal entity.  
3. An Employee may be seconded to any federal or local entity, to companies owned by the 
federal government, to the private sector, or international bodies and organisations, and any of the employees of those entities may be seconded to the federal government.  
In all cases, the Executive Regulations herein shal l regulate all provisions and controls 
relating to transfer, assignment, secondment and borrowing.  
 
 
   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  10 
 Article (14) 
Promotions  
 An Employee may be promoted as a job or financial promotion. The Executive Regulations 
herein shall specify the types of promotions, their conditions and controls, their financial or 
functional impact, and all related provisions.  
 
Article (15) 
Training and Scholarships 
1. Federal entities shall preserve trained and qualified human resources, train their 
employees and develop their knowledge, skills, and job capabilities in accordance with 
the training and development law issued by the Council of Ministers based on a 
proposal by the FAHR.  
2. The federal authorities may provide care for the following groups:  
a. National high school graduates to study some vocational and technical disciplines.  
b. Some national employees work for it to complete their university or postgraduate 
studies or obtain accredited professional certificates, according to their job and 
professional needs.  
In all cases, the Executive Regulations herein shall specify any conditions or controls related  
to the care of national employees.  
  
Article (16) 
Delegation on Official Missions  
The Executive Regulation herein shall determine the controls for dispatching employees on 
official missions, whether inside or outside the State, the fees for dispatch and r elated 
provisions.  
 
 
   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  11 
 Article (17) 
Leaves  
1. Leaves shall be classified according to the provisions herein as follows:  
a. Annual leave; 
b. Maternity Leave;  
c. Parental leave;  
d. Sick Leave;  
e. Bereavement leave;  
f. Study leave;  
g. Performing national and reserve service leave; and  
h. Leave without pay.  
2. An Employee may not stop working, except within the limits of his approved leave 
periods, or with an acceptable excuse accepted by the entity in accordance with the provisions herein, its Executive Regulations, and the implementing regulatory 
resolutions for them; otherwise, the interruption from work is considered an absence 
without an acceptable excuse and a reason for termination of service in accordance with 
the provisions h erein.  
3. The Council of Ministers may decide on other types of leave such as waiting period 
leave, pilgrimage leave, patient escort leave and other leaves, and regulate the 
procedures and rules for granting and entitlement thereto.  
 
 
Article (18) 
Annual Leave  
1. The Employee appointed according to the full -time pattern shall be entitled to annual 
leave with a total salary as follows:  
a. (30) Thirty working days for the incumbents of the special grade (B) or above.  
b. (22) Twenty- two working days for the rest of the jobs.  
2. An Employee may take the annual leave all at once or divide it into different periods after  
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  12 
 obtaining the approval of his Line Manager. He may also combine the annual leave with 
any other leave he is entitled to in accordance with the provisions stipulated herein.  
3. The Executive Regulations herein shall determine the number of annual leave days that 
an employee may carry over or compensate for and the mechanism for entitlement to 
annual leave for employees working in other employment modes.  
  
Article (19) 
Maternity Leave 
1. The full -time employee shall be entitled to maternity leave with a total salary of ninety 
(90) days.  
2. An Employee may not combine maternity leave with leave without pay.  
3. After returning from maternity leave, and for a period not exceeding (6) six months as of 
the date of delivery, the female employee shall be entitled to one or two rest periods per 
day to breastfeed her child, provided that the duration of the two periods shall not 
exceed two hours.  
4. The Executive Regulations herein shall determine the provisions and controls for granting this license . 
 
Article (20) 
Parental leave 
The Employee shall be entitled to parental leave with a gross salary for a period of (5) five 
working days for the Employee (whether the father or the mother) who has a newborn to 
take care of his child, who is entitled thereto continuously or intermittent ly within (6) six 
months as of the date of the childbirth.  
 
 
   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  13 
 Article (21) 
Sick Leave 
1. An Employee sick leave shall be authorised according to a medical report approved by an 
official medical authority for a period not exceeding (5) five consecutive working days at 
a time and a maximum of (15) fifteen working days per year. If the duration of the illness 
exceeds that, the authorisation for such leave shall be based on a medical report issued 
by the Medical Committee.  
2. The fifteen (15) working days shall be the first with a gross salary, and any period 
exceeding that shall be deducted from the balance of the Employee annual leave if he 
has a balance, and if he does not have a balance, it shall be considered without a sal ary. 
3. If the Employee exceeds (15) fifteen working days in a year, the federal entity shall refer the employee to the medical committee to decide what it deems appropriate regarding 
his health condition.  
4. The Employee sick condition shall be reviewed if it lasts for a period of more than (6) six 
months. In this case, the medical committee shall decide to extend this leave for a period 
not exceeding (6) additional six months or recommend termination of his services for 
lack of health fitness.  
5. Job- related illnesses and chronic illnesses that the Ministry of Health and Prevention 
determines in coordination with the FAHR and sicknesses in which the medical 
committee decides to prevent the employee from carrying out his job duties for the 
period spec ified by the committee shall be excluded from the application of the 
provisions of Clause (2) of this Article, where the employee shall be paid in these cases, his gross salary for the duration of the sick leave. The Executive Regulations shall specify the maximum leave period in these cases.  
In all cases, the Executive Regulations herein shall specify the controls for granting and 
extending this leave and other related provisions.  
 
 
   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  14 
 Article (22) 
Bereavement Leave 
The Employee shall be granted mourning leave with a total salary for a period of (5) five 
days in the event of the death of any of his first- degree relatives and a period of (3) three 
days in the event of the death of any of his second -degree relatives, st arting as of the date of 
death.  
  
Article (23) 
Study Leave and Exam Leave  
1. The head of the federal entity or his authorised representative may grant the national 
employee a paid study leave on a full -time or part -time basis in order to obtain a 
qualifi cation higher than the general secondary certificate from educational institutions 
accredited by the Ministry of Education, provided that the qualification shall meet the 
needs of the federal entity.  
2. The head of the federal entity or his authorized  representative may grant the citizen 
employee registered in any of the learning programmes -  in-person or remotely in 
educational institutions accredited by the Ministry of Education, whether inside or 
outside the State, leave with a gross salary to perform the semester and annual exams, 
provided that its duration shall be determined the actual days of the exams.  
3. The Executive Regulations herein shall determine the terms, conditions, and controls for granting a study leave. 
  
Article (24) 
Performing national and reserve service Leave 
The national employee shall be entitled to a paid leave to perform the national and reserve 
service in accordance with the legislation in force in the State.  
  
 
  
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  15 
 Article (25) 
Unpaid Leave  
The head of the federal entity or whomever he authorizes  may grant the Employee an 
unpaid leave for a period not exceeding (30) thirty days in one year, provided that the 
Employee shall have serious reasons that require him to be granted this leave and provided 
that he shall have exhausted all his annual leaves, and this leave shall not be counted in the 
employee term of service.  
  
Article (26) 
Work Relationships 
1. Federal entities shall create a motivating and empowering work environment that 
enables al l its employees and organisational units to achieve the highest levels of 
performance and results and contributes to achieving the government goals, and shall be characterised by the following:  
a. Providing outstanding and innovative suggestions and ideas easily; 
b. Providing equal opportunities for staff development;  
c. Achieving security and justice, and meeting the basic requirements of the Employee;  
d. Considering the cultural diversity and individual differences of employees; and  
e. Fulfilling occupational health and safety requirements.  
2. The Employee shall maintain the buildings, vehicles, devices, equipment, and other public property owned by the federal entity and use them for work purposes, and in 
accordance with the applicable legislation and regulations.  
  
Article (27) 
The Employee Professional Ethics and Obligations  
The Employee shall act in an appropriate manner consistent with the standards of behavior  
adopted for public positions, as determined by the Professional Conduct and Ethics 
document of the public position issued by the Council of Ministers based on the FAHR 
proposal, and he shall, in particular, adhere to the following:   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  16 
 1. Respecting laws, systems and regulations related to the performance of job duties and 
responsibilities, and abide by the legislation in force in the State;  
2. Performing the tasks entrusted to him with accuracy, care and integrity in order to 
achieve the goals and interests of the federal entity in which he works;  
3. Exercising job duties in good faith, free of malicious intent or negligence that may cause 
violation of the provisions  herein, its Executive Regulations or resolutions implementing 
them, or harm the public interest;  
4. Providing distinguished services to all clients in a professional, balanced manner 
characterised by friendliness and love of assistance; 
5. Acting in a way that preserves the reputation of the government in general and the entity in which he works in particular;  
6. Adhering to the highest ethical standards in his behaviour and conduct;  
7. Respecting the rights and duties of co- workers and treat them with courtesy;  
8. Using public funds as required by honesty, diligence, and avoiding waste;  
9. Adhering to the information security law in the federal entities;  
10. Not to exploiting the information obtained during the performance of his job duties;  
11. Adhering to the terms and conditions for the use of social media by federal employees;  
12. Not accepting any bribes;  
13. Not to accept gifts except in accordance with the controls specified by the Executive 
Regulations of this Law by Decree.  
14. Not to exploit his position, or the relationships that he establishes during his work in 
order to influence or improperly interf ere in the procedures carried out by the 
competent investigation authorities, whether from within or outside the federal entity; and  
15. Adhering to any other relevant regulations issued by the Council of Ministers in this regard.  
 
   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  17 
 Article (28) 
Disclosure of information and delivery of documents and materials  
1. An Employee shall be prohibited, during and after his term of service in the federal 
entity, from disclosing any confidential information, whether written, electronic, or oral, 
or in an y form, unless he obtains prior written permission from his Employer, and 
whether that information is related to the federal entity with which he works or with any 
other entity, or with those who deal with these entities.  
2. Upon termination of his servi ce with the federal entity for any reason whatsoever, the 
Employee shall hand over to the federal entity all documents, files, materials, disks, and 
programmes he has, and any property belonging to the federal entity in which he works 
or belonging to any of the federal entities and other relevant entities, even if he did not 
include confidential information.  
  
Article (29) 
Conflict of Interest  
An Employee shall, during the performance of his job duties, avoid any conflict of interest 
that may occur between his private activities and the interests of the government and its 
operations, and he shall also avoid any work in which any suspected conflict of interest may 
arise. He shall in particular, avoid the following:  
1. Participation in any process or official resolution that directly or indirectly affects the 
success of a contractor or supplier who is one of his relatives up to the fourth degree, and 
kinship includes kinship and affinity. 
2. Participation in any resolution that may lead to granting any benefits, lands, or licences to any of his relatives up to the fourth degree.  
3. Participation in any official process or resolution that directly or indirectly affects the success of a supplier, contractor, or project in which the employee is a partner in any 
way, and that leads to his obtaining a percentage, share or material benefit, directly or indirectly.   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  18 
 4. Exploiting his position or leaking any information obtained by virtue of his work to 
achieve specific goals  or get exceptional service or treatment from any party.  
 
Article (30) 
Official Working Days and Hours 
A resolution of the Council of Ministers shall determine the days and number of official 
working hours in the federal entities. The number of working day s or hours may vary 
according to the type and nature of the work assigned to the employee.  
  
Article (31) 
Overtime  
The federal entity may assign the employee to perform additional work tasks after the 
official working hours, during the weekends, or during the official holidays.  
The Executive Regulations herein shall specify the controls for assigning employees to overt ime work and the cash compensation for overtime hours or compensatory leave days.  
  
Article (32) 
Official Holidays  
A resolution of the Council of Ministers shall determine the official holidays of the federal government.
 
Article (33) 
Occupational Health and Safety  
The federal entity shall be committed to the following:  
1. Providing a work environment that maintains occupational health and safety for its 
employees in accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety Manual for Federa l 
Government Employees issued by the FAHR;   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  19 
 2. Insuring its employees against injuries and accidents that occur during work. The 
Executive Regulation herein shall specify the mechanisms and controls that the federal 
entity shall abide by.  
  
Article (34) 
Job Violations  
1. Every employee who violates the duties stipulated herein or its Executive Regulations, or 
the resolutions implementing them, or deviates from what is required in the work of his 
position, shall be administratively punished with one of the penalties outlined in article (35) herein without prejudice to civil liability or penal when necessary. The Employee 
shall not be exempted from administrative penalties unless he proves that his 
commission of job- related violations was in implementation  of a written order issued to 
him by his direct boss or his employer, despite a written warning of the violation, and in 
this case, the responsibility lies with the source of this regard.  
2. Criminal authorities shall be notified if it appears that what the Employee committed 
involves a criminal offence.  
3. More than one administrative penalty may not be imposed on an Employee for the same 
act or violation.  
4. The Employee resignation  shall not prevent the continuation of the administrative 
procedures related to the violation committed by him, and the Employer may stop paying any financial dues to the Employee, until the completion of the investigation 
procedures and the issuance of a final resolution that he is not responsible. 
  
Article (35) 
Administrative Penalties  
1. The federal entity, in the event that the Employee commits any violation of the provisions herein, its Executive Regulations,  or the resolutions implementing them, may 
impose the following administrative penalties:  
a. Linear attention;   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  20 
 b. Written warning;  
c. Deduction from the basic salary not exceeding (10) ten days wage for each violation 
and not exceeding (60) sixty day s per year;  
d. Suspension from work without gross pay for a period of not less than one month and 
not more than (3) three months; and 
e. Dismissal from service while preserving the Employee right to a retirement pension 
or end- of-service gratuity.  
2. The appropriate penalty shall be imposed on the Employee according to the severity and 
seriousness of the violation committed. The Executive Regulations herein shall regulate 
the mechanisms of investigation and disposal of these violations, as well as the 
mechanisms of their imposition.  
  
Article (36) 
Abolition of the legal effect of administrative sanctions  
The legal effect of the administrati ve penalties imposed on the Employee shall be cancelled, 
and they shall be considered as if they did not exist upon the expiration of the periods specified by the Executive Regulations herein, provided that they shall be calculated as of 
the date of issuance of the administrative penalty. This provision shall not apply in the event 
that the Employee returns to commit any violation before the expiry of these periods.  
 
Article (37) 
Suspending the Employee from work and stopping the payment of his salary  
The federal entity may suspend the employee from work, stop paying all or some of his 
salary and refer him to the judicial authorities due to proof of job violations that represent 
criminal offences punishable by law. The Executive Regulations herein shall  determine the 
provisions and controls related to the aforementioned cases, the cases of violations 
abatement, and any other related provisions.   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  21 
 Article (38) 
Service Termination Reasons  
The Employee service ends for any of the following reasons:  
1. Failu re to pass the probationary period successfully;  
2. Functional incompetence;  
3. Unfitness;  
4. Absence from work without acceptable justification for a period of (10) ten consecutive 
working days or (20) twenty separate working days during one year;  
5. Substitution to localise jobs for non -citizens;  
6. Restructuring;  
7. Dismissal by resolution of the Council of Ministers; 
8. Issuance of a federal decree to terminate service;  
9. Dismissal from service by a resolution related to an administrative offence or dismissal by a court ruling;  
10. Convicted of a felony or misdemeanour violating honour, trust or morals;  
11. Sentencing him to imprisonment for a period exceeding (3) three months in any felony 
or misdemeanour;  
12. Withdrawing or forfeiting the nationality of the State from the Employee;  
13. Not renewing or terminating the employment contract before its expiration date;  
14. Resignation;  
15. Reaching the retirement age;  
16. Referral to retirement before reaching the legal age; and  
17. Death. 
The hiring authority may decide not to terminate the service stipulated in Clause (4) herein 
when the Employee expresses an excuse, and the hiring authority accepts it. The period of 
absence, in this case shall be considered leave without pay.  
In all cases, the Executive Regulations herein shall specify the conditions and mechanisms related to each reason for termination of service mentioned in this Article.  
   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  22 
 Article (39) 
Service Termination Authorisation  
Termination of service reasons mentioned in article (38) herein shall be issued by a 
resolution of the competent authority for appointment, with the exception of the following:  
1. Dismissal of the Employee in accordance with Clause (7) of article (38) herein, in which 
a resolution is issued by the Counci l of Ministers, based on the recommendation of the 
head of the concerned federal entity, with the payment of the gross salary for the warning period prescribed for his grade, provided that this period shall not be counted among the duration of his service with the federal entity.  
2. The termination of service due to death; a resolution shall be issued accordingly by the competent head of the federal entity or his authorised representative.  
  
Article (40) 
Resignation and Notice Period  
The Executive Regulation herein shall define the controls and mechanisms related to 
resignation and the time frame for its acceptance.  
The notice period, its reduction or exemption from it, or the termination of the employment 
contract and all its provisio ns. 
Article (41) 
Indemnity  
1. The entitlements of the national employee shall be calculated at the end of his service in 
accordance with the provisions of Federal Law No. (7) of 1999 issuing the Pensions and 
Social Security Law and amendments thereof.  
2. The Employee (non -national) appointed on a full -time basis shall be entitled, at the end 
of his service, to an end -of-service gratuity calculated according to the basic salary at  the 
rate of:  
a. The basic salary for (21) days for each of the first five years; and  
b. The basic salary for (30) days for each year of more than this.   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  23 
 3. The Indemnity shall be calculated for the Employee who works in other modes of work 
based on a percentage an d proportionality from the mechanism set forth in Clause (2) of 
this Article.  
4. The Employee shall not be entitled to the indemnity if his service period in the federal 
entity is less than one continuous year. 
5. For the purposes of calculating the in demnity, the warning period and the total number 
of days of due leave that the Employee has not used in accordance with the provisions 
herein shall be considered part of the period of service, and part of a month shall be considered a full month.  
6. Subj ect to the Federal Law on Pensions and Social Security, the end -of-service gratuity 
shall be paid to the Employee who obtains the nationality of the State based on the last 
basic salary upon his acquisition of the State nationality, without prejudice to any 
agreement contained in the employment contract between the employee and the entity with regard to the wage for which the gratuity shall be calculated.  
7. The Federal Entity shall have the right to deduct any amounts from the Employee indemnity, to pay the debts and obligations owed by him to the federal entity in accordance with the provisions of the applicable legislation.  
8. The Council of Ministers may  adopt other patterns and mechanisms for calculating and 
paying end- of-service remuneration and the rules for its disbursement.  
 
Article (42) 
 Mechanism for calculating indemnity benefits for continuing employees  
The indemnity for non -national employees wh o are continuing their work shall be 
calculated in accordance with the previous regulations in force in the federal entity until the day preceding the date of entry into force herein, provided that the reward for them shall be 
calculated in accordance with  article (41) herein as of the date of its enforcement.  
 
 
  
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  24 
 Article (43) 
Grievance Committee  
1. A Grievance Committee shall be established in each federal entity to consider employee 
grievances regarding penalties imposed on them by the Employer or any other 
procedures or resolutions taken against them.  
2. The Executive Regulations herein shall regulate the procedures and duration for 
submitting a grievance, the provisions for the formation of the committee, its working 
mechanisms  and the issuance of its resolutions, and other provisions related thereto.  
3. The Employee shall complain about the resolutions issued in his regard before the 
Grievance Committee before objecting thereto, and submitting the grievance shall not 
result i n stopping the implementation of the resolution complained of.  
4. The Federal Entity shall be committed to the resolution of the Grievance Committee and may not object to it in accordance with article (44) herein.  
5. The Grievance Committee shall issue its resolution not to accept the grievance if the 
applicant has no interest in it or if it is not submitted in accordance with the periods and 
procedures specified by the Executive Regulations herein.  
 
Article (44) 
 Objections Committee 
1. By a resolution of the head of the FAHR, a committee called the "Objections Committee" 
shall be formed to consider objections submitted by federal government employees to the resolution of the Grievances Committee in accordance with the procedures, 
mechani sms and periods specified by the Executive Regulations herein. The resolutions 
issued by the Objections Committee shall be final.  
2. The lawsuit filed by the Employee before the judiciary based on the provisions herein or 
its Executive Regulations or the resolutions issued for their implementation shall not be 
accepted if it was not preceded by resorting to the Grievances Committee and the 
Objections Committee within the periods and in accordance with the procedures and 
conditions specified by the Executive Regulations herein.   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  25 
 Article (45)  
Cases  
1. Cases related to administrative resolutions issued in application of the provisions her ein 
shall not be heard after the expiration of a period of (60) sixty days as of the date of 
certain knowledge of the resolution.  
2. Cases relating to challenges to federal decrees issued to terminate service shall not be 
heard.  
  
Article (46) 
Issuing Executive Regulations, Resolutions and Regulatory Laws  
The Council of Ministers, based on the FAHR proposal, shall issue the following:  
1. The Executive Regulations herein;  
2. Job evaluation and description law in the federal government;  
3. Performance management law for federal government employees;  
4. Training and development law for federal government employees;  
5. Rewards and incentives law for federal government employees;  
6. Work law in the federal government under emergency conditions;  
7. Any other resolutions or regulations related to the provisions herein.  
  
 
Article (47) 
Final Provisions  
1. The re solutions of the Council of Ministers issued prior to the issuance herein regarding 
the exception of some federal entities from the application of the Human Resources Law in the Federal Government or some of its provisions shall be considered valid unless the 
Council of Ministers decides otherwise.  
2. The grade and salary scales approved prior to the entry into force of the provisions herein shall remain in force unless they are amended by the Council of Ministers.   
Federal Law by Decree No. (49) of 2022  on Human Resources in the Federal Government  26 
 3. The Council of Ministers may change the periods stipulated herein according to the 
changes and needs of the work, and what is required by the public interest.  
  
 
Article (48)  
Repeals  
1. Federal Law by Decree No. (11) of 2008 Concerning Human Resources i n the Federal 
Government and its amendments shall be repealed.  
2. The resolutions, regulations, and laws implementing Federal Law by Decree No. (11) of 
2008 shall continue t o be in force, to the extent that they do not conflict with the 
provisions herein, until the issuance of the laws, regulations, and resolutions that replace 
them.  
 
Article (49) 
Publication and Entry into Force of the Law by Decree  
This Law by Decree shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall be effective from 
January 02, 2023.  
 
 
 
 
  
Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
UAE President  
 
Issued by us in the Presidency Palace in Abu Dhabi on:  
On: Rabi' al- Awwal 07, 1444 H  
Corresponding to: October 03, 2022.  