 
Federal Decree by Law No. (13) of 2022 Concerning Insurance against Unemployment  1 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (13) of 2022  
Concerning Insurance against Unemployment  
 
We, Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan,  President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Having reviewed the Constitution; and  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 , Concerning the Competences of Ministries and Capacities 
of Ministers and its amendments thereof; and  
− Federal Law No. (2) of 2001 , Concerning the Social Security and its amendments 
thereof; and  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (14) of 2018 , Concerning the Central Bank and the 
Regulation of Financial Establishments and Activities, and its amendments thereof; and  
− Federal Law No. (6) of 2007 , Regulating Insurance Activities and its amendments 
thereof; and  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (33) of 2021 , Regulating Labour Relations and its Executive 
Regulations; and  
− Based upon the proposal submitted by the Minister of Human Resources and 
Emiratization, and the Cabinet's approval,  
Have promulgated the following Decree by Law:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In implementing the provisions of this Decree by Law, the following terms and phrases 
shall have the meaning assigned to each, unless the context requires otherwise:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Ministry  : The Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratization.  
Minister  : The Minister of Human Resources and Emiratization.  
Central Bank  : The Central Bank of the UAE.  
Scheme (Insurance : A scheme that aims to compensate the insured with a cash  
Federal Decree by Law No. (13) of 2022 Concerning Insurance against Unemployment  2 
 against 
Unemployment 
Scheme)  amount for a limited period, in the event of unemployment, in 
return for a subscription fee collected from the 
worker/employee, in accordance with the provisions of this 
Decree by Law and the Cabinet Resolutions regulating the 
same.  
Insured  : The worker/employee who works in the private sector in the 
State or in the federal government sector, who is subscribed to 
the scheme in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by 
Law and the Cabinet Resolutions regulating the same.  
Worker/Employee  : Every natural person working in the private sector in the State 
or in the federal government sector.  
Unemployment 
Insurance  : The unemployment resulting from terminating the services of 
the insured at the employing entity in accordance with the 
provisions of this Decree by Law and the Cabinet Resolutions 
regulating the same.  
Compensation  : The amount which the insured is entitled to in the event of 
unemployment in accordance with the provisions of this 
Decree by Law and the Cabinet Resolutions regulating the 
same.  
Private Sector  : Companies, institutions, establishments, or any other entities 
owned by individuals wholly or jointly w ith the federal or local 
government, and companies and establishments wholly 
owned by the federal or local government unless the laws 
incorporating them provide otherwise.  
Federal 
Government 
Sector  : Any Ministry established in accordance with Federal Law No. 
(1) of 1972  on the Competences of Ministries and Capacities of 
Ministers and its amendments thereof, as well as any federal 
authority, institution or regulatory body affiliated with the 
federal government.   
Federal Decree by Law No. (13) of 2022 Concerning Insurance against Unemployment  3 
 Service Provider  : Insurance Companies licensed by the Central Bank, and that 
meet the conditions for practicing the activity of the 
unemployment insurance service provider, which are issued by 
the Cabinet after consulting the Central Bank, or any other 
governmental entity assigned by the Cabinet to provide 
unemployment insurance services.  
 
Article (2) 
Objectives of the Decree by Law  
This Decree by Law aims to achieve the following:  
1. Guarantee the availability of an income, for a limited period of time, to the insured 
during the unemployment period until alternative job opportunities become available, in 
accordance with the provisions of this Decree by Law.  
2. Enhance the competitiveness of the Emirati human resources within the labor market 
and provide them with a social protection umbrella that guarantees the duration of a 
decent life for them and their families until alternative job opportunities become 
available.  
3. Attract the world's best skilled labour talents and retain it within the State's labour 
market to reach a competitive economy of knowledge.  
  
Article (3)  
Scope of Application  
1. The pr ovisions of this Decree by Law shall apply to all workers of the private and federal 
government sectors in the State, with exception to the following categories:  
a. An Investor (owner of the facility in which he works).  
b. Domestic workers.  
c. A worker with a temporary contract.  
d. Juveniles who are less than eighteen (18) years of age.  
e. Retirees who receive a pension and have joined a new employment.   
Federal Decree by Law No. (13) of 2022 Concerning Insurance against Unemployment  4 
 2. The Cabinet may, based upon the Minister's proposal, amend the scope of application of 
this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (4)  
Establishment of the Unemployment Insurance Scheme  
Pursuant to the provisions of this Decree by Law, an unemployment insurance scheme shall be established in the State, which aims to compensate the insured with a cash amount –  for 
a limited period of time – in the event of unemployment; and the Cabinet shall, based upon 
the Minister's proposal, determine the scheme's mechanism, operation, and application, and the value of the insured's monthly subscription; and it shall set any conditions or 
procedures, or impose any penalties necessary for the implementation of the scheme.  
  
Article (5)  
Conditions for Entitlement to Compensation and its Suspension  
The following shall be required by the insured to be eligible for compensation:  
1. The insured's subscription period shall not be less than (12) twelve consecutive months in the scheme.  
2. The insured should not be dismissed from his job for disciplinary reasons in accordance with the provisions of the Law Regulating of Labour Relations and the Law on Human 
Resources in the Federal Government, and any relevant applicable legislation.  
3. The claim for compensation should not be through fraud or deception, or if it turns out that the facility within which the insured works is fictitious; in such event, the penalties and sanctions stipulated in the Law on the Regulation of Labour Relations and any other 
legislation in force in the State shall apply to the facility and the insured.  
4. The compensation payment shall be suspended if the worker/employee joins another 
employer during the compensation entitlement period.  
5. The Cabinet may, based upon the Minister's proposal, amend the conditions for 
entitlement to compensation.  
   
Federal Decree by Law No. (13) of 2022 Concerning Insurance against Unemployment  5 
 Article (6)  
Value and Period of Compensation  
1. The compensation shall be on a monthly basis at the rate of (60%) of the subscription 
salary and capped at AED 20,000 (Twenty Thousand UAE Dirhams) per month for a 
period of (3) three months from the date of unemployment.  
2. The maximum period for compensation shall be (3) three months for each claim, provided that the coverage period does not exceed (12) twelve months during the 
period of service of the insured in the labour market in the State.  
3. The insured may agree on additional benefits with the private service provider.  
4. Without prejudice to the provisions of this clauses (1) and (2) above, the Cabinet may, 
upon the Minister's proposal and after coordinating with the concerned authorities, 
amend the rates, values, and periods stipulated in this article, in order to achieve more 
benefits for the insured.  
5. The disbursement of compensation to which the insured is entitled hereunder shall be 
without prejudice to any other compensation or entitlements prescribed under any 
legislation in force in the State.  
  
Article (7)  
Implementing Resolutions  
The Cabinet shall issue the resolutions necessary for implementing the provisions of this 
Decree by Law.  
  
Article (8)  
Publication and Enforcement of the Decree by Law  
This Decree by Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force as of 
the day following its date of publication.  
  
   
Federal Decree by Law No. (13) of 2022 Concerning Insurance against Unemployment  6 
 Mohamed bin Zayed Al- Nahyan  
President  United Arab Emirates  
 
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi,  
On: 19 / Safar / 1444 A.H.  
Corresponding: 15 / September / 2022 AD  
 
 