 
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  1 
  
Federal Decree by Law No. (21) of 2022, Regulating the Profession of Experts 
before Judicial Authorities  
 
We, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan,                     President of the United Arab 
Emirates,  
− Having reviewed:  
− The Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Competences of Ministries and the 
Powers of Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 Promulgating the Civil Transactions Law of the United 
Arab Emirates, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (10) of 1992 Promulgating the Law of Evidence in Civil and 
Commercial Transactions, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (11) of 1992 Promulgating the Civil Procedure Code, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (35) of 1992 Promulgating the Criminal Procedure Code, as 
amended;  
− Federal Law No. (7) of 2012 Regulating the Profession of Experts Before Judicial 
Authorities;  
− Federal Law No. (14) of 2016 Concerning Administrative Violations and Penal ties in 
the Federal Government;  
− Federal Decree - Law No. (26) of 2019 on Public Finance;  
− Federal Decree - Law No. (31) of 2021 Promulgating the Law of Crimes and Penalties;  
− Federal Decree - Law No. (33) of 2021 Regulating Labor Relations; and   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  2 
 − Based on  the proposal of the Minister of Justice and approval of the Cabinet,  
Hereby enact the following Decree -Law:  
  
Article (1) Definitions  
For the purposes of applying the provisions of the Present Decree -Law, the following words 
and expressions shall bear the  meanings assigned thereto respectively, unless the context 
requires otherwise:  
 The State (UAE ): 
 The United Arab Emirates.  
 The Ministry:  
 The Ministry of Justice.  
 The Minister:  
 The Minister of Justice.  
 The Competent 
Licensing 
Authority:  
 The local authority competent to issue professional licenses for 
experts and expert firms.  
 
 The Competent 
Judicial 
Authority:  
 Courts and the Public Prosecution.  
 
 The Competent 
Court of Appeal : 
 The court of appeal determined by virtue of a resolution of the 
Minister.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  3 
  The Committee:  
 The Experts' Affairs Committee formed under article (21) of the 
present Decree -Law.  
 The Board:  
 The Experts and Expert Firms Disciplinary Board established 
under article (24) of the present Decree -Law.  
 The Competent 
Department:  
 The organizational unit concerned with experts' affairs at the 
Ministry.  
 Profession of 
Experts:  
 A te chnical work practiced, based on the assignment of the 
Competent Judicial Authority or the litigants' agreement, as the 
case may be, by experts to submit their technical or scientific 
reports to the Competent Judicial Authority as per the areas of 
their sp ecialties.  
 The Roster:  
 The Roster of Experts and Expert Firms at the Ministry.  
 Expert Services:  
 A specialized work practiced, based on the assignment of the 
Competent Judicial Authority or the litigants' agreement, as the 
case may be, by the Expert t o express a verbal or written technical 
opinion in any case or incident assigned thereto.  
 Expert:  
 A natural person licensed to practice the profession of experts, 
whether he is appointed in the Ministry or registered in the 
Roster.  
 Expert Firm:  
 A legal person licensed to practice the Profession of Experts in the 
State and registered in the Roster, including local and 
international expert firms.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  4 
  Technical 
Inspector:  
 An expert with relevant knowledge and experience who is 
appointed in the Compet ent Department and who performs 
technical audit and inspection of the Expert Services and follows 
up on their reports and technical competent in the actions 
assigned thereto.  
 The Code of 
Conduct:  
 A set of professional, ethical and behavioral norms and r ules 
which the Expert and Expert Firms shall adhere to when 
performing the expert Services.  
  
Article (2) Objectives of the Law  
The present Decree -Law aims at achieving the following:  
1. Regulating the Expert Services before the judicial authorities;  
2. Providing the judicial authorities with qualified Experts, in a way that helps ensure 
the accuracy of court decisions and judgments delivered by them;  
3. Developing the Expert Services and improving the efficiency of Experts, with a view 
to expediting judi cial procedures; and  
4. Boosting confidence in those who perform the Expert Services within specific 
professional, ethical and behavioral norms.  
  
Article (3) Applicability  
The provisions of the present Decree -Law shall apply to any person who performs the  
Expert Services before the judicial authorities in the State, with the exception of the local 
judicial authorities and arbitration centers which regulate the Profession of Experts before 
them under their local legislation.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  5 
   
Article (4) Practice of the Pr ofession of Experts  
1. Any expert or expert firms not registered in the Roster may not practice the Profession of 
Experts before the judicial authorities in the State.  
2. Notwithstanding the provision of Clause (1) of this article, the litigants may agree to 
assign an Expert or Expert Firm who is not registered in the Roaster to prepare a report 
on the dispute pending before the Competent Judicial Authority or on part thereof, 
provided that the Competent Judicial Authority approves their agreement. The judi cial 
authority may seek assistance of unregistered experts or expert firms.  
3. The Executive Regulations of the present Decree -Law shall set the controls for seeking 
assistance of unregistered Experts or Expert Firms, referred to in Clause (2) of this Arti cle. 
  
Article (5) The Roster of Experts and Expert Firms  
1. There shall be created, at the Ministry, a Roster for registering Experts and Expert Firms 
in the specialties for which they are registered.  Each Expert shall have a file in which 
anything related to the affairs related to the practice of the profession shall be recorded.  
2. All information about Experts and Expert Firms determined by the Executive Regulations 
of the present Decree -Law and a ny update thereto shall be recorded in the Roster.  
3. By virtue of a resolution of the Minister, the classification, categories and specialties of 
Experts and the controls and requirements for determining the technical specialties 
whereby Experts are lic ensed, depending on the needs of the competent judicial 
authorities.  
  
Article (6) Conditions of Registration of the Expert in the Roster   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  6 
 In order for an Expert to be registered in the Roster, the following conditions shall be 
fulfilled:  
1. He shall be ful ly competent and medically fit.  
2. He shall be of good conduct and good reputation, and shall have never been 
convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty, if he had 
been rehabilitated.  
3. He shall have a university degree from one of the universities or higher institutes 
accredited in the State in the area of specialization for which his registration is 
required.  
4. His practical experience in the area of experience for which registration is required 
shall not be less than five (5) years for nationals and fifteen (15) years for 
non -nationals.  
5. The number of areas of specialization for which his registration in the R oster is 
required shall not exceed two areas in the same business sector.  
6. He shall have the approval of the entity he works for or the holder of a valid 
commercial license in the same specialization for which his registration is required or 
shall work b y such license.  
7. He shall attend the training courses designated for Experts and organized or 
determined by the Ministry, in accordance with the training plan approved thereby 
in this regard.  
8. He shall pass the examinations determined by the Ministry.  
9. He provide a valid professional liability insurance policy issued by one of the 
insurance companies licensed to operate in the State, unless the Expert's liability is 
covered by an insurance policy of the Expert Firm for which he works, in accordance 
with the controls set by the Minister.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  7 
 10. He shall have never been struck off the Roster, in implementation of a decision by 
the Board or the Competent Court of Appeal, unless three (3) years has been elapsed 
since the issuance of the decision or judgment.  
11. He shall pay the prescribed fees.  
  
Article (7) Conditions of Registration of Expert Firms in the Roster  
In order for an Expert Firm to be registered in the Roster, the following conditions shall be 
fulfilled:  
1. As for local Expert Firms:  
a. It shall be licensed to operate in the State by the Competent Licensing Authority, and 
its license shall be valid.  
b. Its supervising manager shall be an Expert registered in the Roster.  
c. The number of Experts in the local Expert Firm shall not be less than four (4) Experts, 
provided that they are registered in the Roster.  
d. The number of areas of specialization for which its registration in the Roster is 
required shall not exceed four areas of specialization.  
e. It shall provide a valid professional liability insurance policy for the benefit of the 
Ministry throughout the duration of the registration. Such insurance policy shall be 
issued by one of the insurance companies licensed to operate in the State, in 
accor dance with the controls set by the Minister.  
f. It shall pay the prescribed fees.  
2. As for international Expert Firms:  
a. It shall be licensed to operate in the State by the Competent Licensing Authority, and 
its license shall be valid.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  8 
 b. Its provide a v alid license of the main branch outside the State, in addition to 
providing valid licenses of at least two branches thereof in different states.  
c. Its practical experience in the area of specialization for which registration is required 
shall not be less than ten (10) years.  
d. Its supervising manager shall be an Expert registered in the Roster.  
e. The number of Experts in the international Expert Firm shall not be less than five (5) 
Experts, who shall be residents in the State and qualified, provided that  their 
documents and resumes which meet the conditions are submitted to the Committee 
for approval of the area of experience required.  
f. The number of areas of specialization for which its registration in the Roster is 
required shall not exceed five areas  of specialization.  
g. It shall provide a valid professional liability insurance policy issued by one of the 
insurance companies licensed to operate in the State, in accordance with the controls 
set by the Minister.  
h. It shall pay the prescribed fees.  
  
Article (8) Exemption from Certain Conditions of Registration in the Roster  
The Committee may exempt some natural persons or Expert Firms from certain conditions 
of registration in the Roster, set forth in articles (6) and (7) of the present Decree -Law, in any 
of the following two cases:  
1. Licensing employees of the government agencies;  
2. Any Expert who has been registered in the Roster prior to the entry into force of the 
present Decree -Law, in the event that the Committee finds that he has the necessary 
competency and experience through reviewing his record and the number of expert 
servic es which have been assigned to him and he has accomplished.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  9 
 3. Persons with scarce expertise, in cases where there are no similar Experts registered 
in the Roster, or their number is insufficient.  
  
Article (9) Procedures for Registration in the Roster  
1. The Committee shall examine the application for registration in the Roster in accordance 
with the conditions and controls set by the Executive Regulations of the present 
Decree -Law.  
2. The Committee shall decide on the application within sixty (60) days fr om the date of 
submission and notify the applicant of the decision within ten (10) working days. Any 
Expert whose application has been rejected may challenge the decision issued by the 
Committee before the competent court within thirty (30) days from the d ate of being 
notified thereof or the lapse of the period for decision on the application without reply. 
The judgment rendered in this regard shall be final.  
3. Any Expert whose application has been rejected may submit a new application after no 
less than s ix (6) months from the date of rejection of the application for registration.  
  
Article (10) Term of Registration in the Roster  
1. The term of registration of the Expert and Expert Firm in Roster shall be three (3) 
renewable years, provided that the rene wal application is submitted at least thirty (30) 
days prior to its expiration date in accordance with the same conditions of registration 
for the first time.  
2. No new tasks shall be assigned to the Expert or Expert Firm from the expiration date of 
thei r respective registration until the renewal thereof.  
3. Failure to submit an application for renewal of registration after ninety (90) days from its 
expiration date shall entail striking off the Roster.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  10 
   
Article (11) Taking Legal Oath  
1. No Expert shall perform the Expert Services before taking the legal oath.  
2. The Expert shall take the legal oath after being registered in the Roster before a circuit of 
the Competent Court of Appeal. The legal oath shall be read as follows:  
3. "I swear by Almighty God that I will perform the duties of my profession 
accurately, honestly and sincerely and in such a manner that preserves its dignity 
and honor and I will respect the principles and traditions of the profession." There 
shall be drawn u p an oath record which shall be kept on the file of the Expert with the 
Competent Department.  
  
Article (12) Practicing the Profession of Experts through a Licensed Expert 
Firm  
The Expert shall practice the Profession of Experts through a licensed Expert F irm in the area 
of his specialization to perform the Expert Services in accordance with the conditions and 
controls set by the Executive Regulations of the present Decree -Law, with the exception of 
the Expert who is a public official.  
  
Article (13) Ceasin g to Practice the Profession of Experts  
1. The Expert or the Expert Firm, as the case may be, may cease to practice the Profession of 
Experts if there is an impediment to the practice of the profession, provided that the 
Competent Department is notified of  cessation to practice the profession as determined 
by the Executive Regulations of the present Decree -Law.  
2. The period of cessation to practice the Profession of Experts shall be counted in the term  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  11 
 of registration in the Roster. He may apply for re -practicing the same when such 
impediment is removed, provided that the conditions of practicing the profession and  
validity of his registration.  
  
Article (14) Obligations of Experts  
Upon practicing the Profession of Experts, the Expert shall abide by the following:  
1. Carrying out the Expert Services accurately, honestly and sincerely and in such a 
manner that preser ves its dignity and honor and respecting the principles and 
traditions of the profession in accordance with the Code of Conduct;  
2. Performing the task assigned thereto on his own. The Expert and Expert Firm may 
seek assistance of any experts working there with in performing the task assigned 
thereto, provided that the same is under his responsibility and supervision;  
3. Not disclosing the information to which he has access by virtue of his performance 
of the Expert Services;  
4. He or any of his relatives up  to the fourth degree shall not have any direct or indirect 
interest in any work related to the merits of the case in which he provides Expert 
Services;  
5. If the Expert is a public official, the entity he works for shall not be a party to the 
dispute pend ing; 
6. He shall not accept to provide the Expert Services in a dispute on which he has 
previously been consulted by a party thereto, even if verbally, or the documents of 
which has been accessed thereby or on which he has previously issued any Expert's 
consulting reports upon referring the matter to courts;  
7. Improving and developing his skills in the area of specialization for which he is  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  12 
 licensed, with a minimum of thirty (30) training hours every year or according to the 
training plan approved by the M inistry;  
8. His name and registration number and the name of the Expert Firm he works for 
shall be affixed to all prints, correspondence, certificates and reports signed thereby;  
9. Notifying the Ministry of his address and of any change to it and updating  his data 
with the Ministry within one month from the date of such change;  
10. Performing all actions related to the Expert Services and responding to the 
competent judicial authorities if he is called for discussion and clarification on the 
date scheduled  by such authorities;  
11. Keeping a special record in which he records the information on the Expert Services 
he has accomplished; and  
12. Keeping a true copy of the report he has prepared for at least five (5) years, 
commending from the date o f filing the report with the competent court or 
delivering the same to the party requesting the report.  
  
Article (15) Cases of the Expert's Withdrawal from Performing the Expert 
Services  
The Expert shall withdraw from performing the Expert Services assigned thereto in any of 
the following cases:  
1. If he is a relative or an in -law of any of the litigants up to the fourth degree;  
2. If he, his spouse or any of his relatives up to the second  degree has outstanding 
litigation with any disputant unless such litigation arises after the appointment of the 
Expert with the intent of disqualifying him; or  
3. In case of occurrence of any of the cases referred to in Clauses (4), (5) and (6) of 
article  (14) of the present Decree -Law.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  13 
   
Article (16) Committee of Experts  
1. The Competent Judicial Authority may form a committee consisting of more than one 
Expert to jointly work to express their opinion on a pending dispute or action, provided 
that the reso lution issued by the Competent Judicial Authority specifies the role and 
responsibilities of each Expert.  
2. Experts shall jointly record the results in a final report signed by all of them, unless the 
resolution provides for otherwise.  
3. If one of the Ex perts has an opinion different from the opinion of another Expert in the 
Committee of Experts, he may express his own opinion in the final report.  
  
Article (17) Notification of Criminal Actions  
All the competent judicial authorities shall notify the Compe tent Department of the criminal 
actions instituted against Experts and Expert Firms and the judgments rendered against any 
of them within a period not exceeding five (5) working days from the date of filing the 
actions or rendering the judgments, as the ca se may be, with regard to the performance of 
the Expert Services or the crimes involving moral turpitude or dishonesty.  
  
Article (18) Procedures for Assessment of the Expert's Work  
1. The Competent Department shall prepare an annual performance report to assess the 
Expert's work in accordance with the criteria and forms determined by the Executive 
Regulations of the present Decree -Law.  
2. The Expert's technical assessment report shall be deposited in his personal file with the 
Competent Department after serving a copy thereof on the Expert, and no person other  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  14 
 than the Competent Department, the Expert concerned with the report and the 
Commi ttee shall have access to such report.  
3. The Competent Department shall deliver the performance report to the Expert within 
ten (10) working days from the date of approval of the report by the Competent 
Department. The Expert may lodge a complaint in writ ing about the technical 
assessment report with the Committee within thirty (30) days from the day following the 
date of being notified of the report.  
4. The Committee shall issue its decision on the complaint, whether rejecting the same or 
amending the res ult of the technical assessment, within thirty (30) days from the date of 
lodging the complaint, and the decision issued thereby on the complaint shall be final 
and may not be appealed before any entity.  
  
Article (19) Effects of the Result of the Assessme nt 
In the event that the Expert's technical assessment result is average or poor, the Committee 
shall take any of the following actions and measures against the Expert as it deems 
appropriate, according to the following sequence:  
1. Sending a written warni ng to the Expert to address the causes of his poor 
performance if he gets such assessment score for the first time;  
2. Obligating the Expert to take specialized training courses and pass the tests 
determined by the Committee;  
3. Suspending the Expert from providing the Expert Services before the competent 
judicial authorities for a period not exceeding six (6) months, in the case that he gets 
such assessment score after receiving a written warning or after being obligated to 
take specialized training course s and passing the tests determined by the Committee; 
or  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  15 
 4. Striking the Expert off the Roster in the case that he repeatedly gets such assessment 
score after being suspended from providing the Expert Services.  
  
Article (20) Cases of Striking the Expert or  Expert Firm off the Roster  
The Expert and Expert Firm shall be struck off the Roster by virtue of a decision issued by the 
Committee in any of the following cases:  
1. As for the Expert:  
a. If he no longer fulfills any of the conditions of registration;  
b. If he becomes unable to perform his work due to his health condition, based on a 
report to be issued by a specialized medical committee;  
c. If he repeatedly gets an average or poor technical assessment; or  
d. At a request submitted by him.  
2. As for the E xpert Firm:  
a. If it no longer fulfills any of the conditions of registration;  
b. If it does not renew its registration within the time limit referred to in article (10) 
of the present Decree -Law; or  
c. At a request submitted by the legal representative of  the Expert Firm.  
  
Article (21) Establishment and Formation of the Experts' Affairs Committee  
1. A committee to be known as the "Experts' Affairs Committee" shall be formed under the 
present Decree -Law and shall report to the Ministry.  
2. The Committee's formation and rules of procedures shall be determined under a 
resolution issued by the Minister, provided that the number of its members is not less 
than five (5), in addition to two members selected from the Experts appointed at the  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  16 
 Competent Department. The resolution shall designate the chairman and vice -chairman 
of the Committee.  
  
Article (22) Competences of the Experts' Affairs Committee  
The Committee shall be competent to:  
a. Examine and decide on applications for registration of Experts and Expert Firms in 
the Roster and applications for canceling the registration and ceasing to practice the 
Profession of Experts submitted by the Expert or Expert Firm, as the case may be, as 
determined by  the Executive Regulations of the present Decree -Law;  
b. Examine complaints related to the Experts and Expert Firms to decide either to 
dismiss the complaint or refer the same to the Public Prosecution;  
c. Examine the reports submitted thereto on the Exper ts and Expert Firms and take the 
necessary action, as determined by the Executive Regulations of the present 
Decree -Law;  
d. Examine complaints lodged by the Expert about the annual performance assessment 
report; and  
e. Perform any other competences assigne d thereto under the present Decree -Law and 
the resolutions issued hereunder.  
  
Article (23) Referral of Complaints to the Committee  
The Competent Department shall notify the Experts or Expert Firms, as the case may be, of 
any complaint lodged against them in order to respond to it within a period not exceeding 
fifteen (15) working days from the date of being notified thereof. The complaint, 
accompanied by the response of the Expert or Expert Firm and the response of the Technical 
Inspector, shall be referre d to the Committee to either decide to dismiss the complaint or  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  17 
 refer the same to the Public Prosecution to institute and initiate the disciplinary action 
before the Board.  
  
Article (24) Establishment and Formation of the Disciplinary Board  
1. There shall  be established under the present Decree -Law a board to be known as "the 
Experts Disciplinary Board" which is competent to discipline Experts and Expert Firms.  
2. The Minister shall issue a resolution forming the Board and determining its rules of 
procedur e. The Board shall be headed by a president of the courts of appeal and formed 
of two members selected from the judges thereof and nominated by the Competent 
Judicial Authority they work for.  
  
Article (25) Instituting and Investigating into the Disciplina ry Action  
1. The disciplinary action shall be instituted before the Board by the Public Prosecution, by 
filing a statement containing the violations and the supporting documents.  
2. The Board may conduct the investigations it deems necessary and may assign one of its 
members to conduct the same.  
3. The Board may temporarily suspend the Expert or Expert Firm from performing their 
work until the conclusion of their trial.  
  
Article (26) Conduct of Trial Proceedings  
1. If the Board decides to conduct the trial proceedings for all or some of the violations, it 
shall order the Expert or the Director of the Expert Firm, as the case may be, to appear 
before it within at least five (5) working  days, based on a decision issued by the 
chairman of the Board.   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  18 
 2. The order to appear shall contain an adequate description of the subject matter of the 
action and the prosecution evidence.  
  
Article (27) Hearings of the Board and Appealing its Judgments  
1. The Board's hearings shall be held in camera and the Expert or the Director of the Expert 
Firm, as the case may be, shall appear in person before the Board and may submit his 
defense in writing or seek the assistance of an attorney.  
2. If Expert or the Director of the Expert Firm fails to appear, the judgment may be delivered 
in absentia after verifying the notification thereof. In such case, The Expert or Expert Firm 
shall be notified of the decision within ten (10) days from the date of issuance thereo f. 
3. The Public Prosecution and the Expert or Expert Firm may appeal the judgment delivered 
by the Board before the Competent Court of Appeal within thirty (30) days from the date 
of issuing the decision if issued in presence of the Expert, and from the d ate of notifying 
the Expert or the Director of the Expert Firm of the decision if issued in absentia.  
4. No Expert or Expert Firm shall be prejudiced by appealing the judgment delivered 
against them by the Board.  
  
Article (28) Judgments Delivered in Disci plinary Actions  
The judgment delivered in the disciplinary action shall include the grounds on which it is 
based, and such grounds shall be read out upon pronouncing the judgment in a hearing held 
in camera.  
  
Article (29) Disciplinary Penalties  
The disciplinary penalties to be imposed on the Expert or Expert Firm shall be as follows:   
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  19 
 1. Reprimand and suspending the assignment of cases for a period of three (3) months;  
2. Warning and suspending the assignment of cases for a period of six (6) month s; 
3. Suspension of registration for a period of one (1) year; or  
4. Finally striking the Expert or Expert Firm off the Roster.  
  
Article (30) Expert's Fees and Expenses Allowance  
1. The Expert and Expert Firm are entitled to receive the fees and expenses allowance 
estimated by the Competent Judicial Authority or agreed upon by the litigants, as the 
case may be, after completing the Expert Services required, at the request of the Expert or 
Expert Firm. They may request to disburse part of the fees at any st age.  
2. The Competent Judicial Authority shall take into account, when determining the fees and 
expenses allowance, the classification of the Expert and Expert Firm, in addition to the 
following controls related to the assigned task:  
a. The size and comple xity of the assigned task;  
b. The tasks performed thereby, the time taken to complete the same, and their 
implementation stages;  
c. The extent of his commitment to implement the assigned task, and how he 
covers all its elements;  
d. The quality of  the Expert Services rendered thereby, and the achievement of the 
goal for which he has been assigned;  
e. The extent of his adherence to the rules of performing the Expert Services;  
f. The result of the technical assessment of his performance when accompli shing 
the assigned task; and  
g. The expenses verified by the Competent Judicial Authority to have been incurred 
thereby due to the performance of the necessary and required Expert Services to  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  20 
 accomplish the assigned task, including the cost of preparing th e place of 
meeting with the disputants, the travel expenses incurred for inspection, the fees 
paid for obtaining any papers, certificates, maps or documents, and the fees paid 
to any specialists and technicians hired for tasks that fall outside the scope o f his 
specialization.  
  
Article (31) Fees of Experts and Expert Firms in Criminal Actions  
The Competent Judicial Authority shall bear the Expert's fees if it decides to seek his 
assistance in criminal actions unless it decides charge the complainant such f ees.  
  
Article (32) Code of Conduct for Experts and Expert Firms  
The Minister shall issue the Code of Conduct for Experts and Expert Firms. Any violation of 
any provision thereof shall entail the imposition of any of the disciplinary penalties set forth 
in article (29) of the present Decree -Law.  
  
Article (33) The Penalty for Preventing the Expert from Performing His Work  
Any person who hinders the Expert from performing the task assigned thereto shall be 
punished by a term of imprisonment of not less than three (3) months and not more than 
one (1) year and/or a fine of not less than (AED 10,000) ten thousand dirhams and not more 
than (30,000) thirty thousand dirhams.  
  
Article (34) The Penalty for Impersonating an Expert  
Any person who impersonates an exper t and is not registered in the Roster or has been 
struck off or suspended and has practiced the Profession of Experts or issued an Expert's  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  21 
 report or a consulting report based on such capacity, in violation of the provisions of the 
present Decree -Law, shal l be punished by a term of imprisonment of not less than one (1) 
year and/or a fine of not less than (AED 50,000) fifty thousand dirhams and not more than 
(300,000) three hundred thousand dirhams.  
  
Article (35) The Penalty for the Expert's Breach of His O bligations  
Any Expert who breaches any of the obligations referred to in Clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) of article (14) of the present Decree -Law shall be punished by imprisonment and/o r 
a fine of not less than (AED 50,000) fifty thousand dirhams and not more than (100,000) 
one hundred thousand dirhams.  
  
Article (36) Imposition of the Severer Penalty  
Imposition of the penalties set forth in the present Decree -Law shall not prejudice the  
imposition of any severer penalty set forth in any other law.  
  
Article (37) Appointment of Experts to Assist Judges  
Subject to the provisions of the present Decree -Law, and by virtue of a resolution of the 
President of the Federal Judiciary or the presid ent of the local judicial authority, each within 
his respective area of competence, one or more local or international experts may be 
appointed to assist judges in hearing the actions pending before the court, in accordance 
with the controls and procedures  set by the Civil Procedure Code.  
  
Article (38) Appointment of the Technical Inspector and Determination of  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  22 
 His Tasks  
1. The Minister may appoint Experts with knowledge and experience at the Ministry to 
perform Expert Se rvices in cases of a special nature, audit and technical inspection over 
the registered Experts' work and follow up on their reports in the actions assigned 
thereto, in cooperation of the Judicial Inspection Department at the Ministry.  
2. The Executive R egulations of the present Decree -Law shall set the conditions of 
appointment of the Experts referred to in Clause (1) of this article and determine their 
tasks and powers and the nature of inspection tasks over the Expert Services assigned to 
them.  
  
Article (39) Capacity of Judicial Officers  
Experts appointed in the Competent Department and designated by a resolution of the 
Minister shall be deemed judicial officers in respect of detecting the violations of the 
provisions of the present Decree -Law, the Exe cutive Regulations hereof and the resolutions 
issued hereunder, within their respective areas of competence.  
  
Article (40) Administrative Penalty Regulations  
The Cabinet may issue the administrative penalty regulations, upon the proposal of the 
Minister, for the actions performed in violation of the provisions of the present Decree -Law 
and the Executive Regulations hereof.  
  
Article (41) Adjustment of Affairs  
Experts and Expert Firms shall adjust their affairs in accordance with the provisions of the 
present Decree -Law, the Executive Regulations hereof and the resolutions issued hereunder  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  23 
 within one (1) year from the date of entry into force of the provisions he reof. Such time limit 
may be extended for another similar period by virtue of a resolution of the Cabinet.  
  
Article (42) Fees  
The Cabinet shall issue, upon the suggestion of the Minister and the proposal of the Minister 
of Finance, a resolution determinin g the fees required for implementing the provisions of 
the present Decree -Law.  
  
Article (43) Executive Regulations  
The Cabinet shall issue, upon the proposal of the Minister, the Executive Regulations of the 
present Decree -Law within six (6) months from t he date of publishing in the Official 
Gazette.  
  
Article (44) Implementing Resolutions  
The Minister shall issue the necessary resolutions to implement the provisions of the present 
Decree -Law.  
  
Article (45) Repeals  
1. Federal Law No. (7) of 2012 Regulatin g the Profession of Experts Before Judicial 
Authorities is hereby repealed and any provision contradicting or contrary to the 
provisions of the present Decree -Law is hereby repealed.  
2. The executive regulations and resolutions in force upon enacting the present 
Decree -Law shall remain in force, without prejudice to the provisions hereof, until the  
Federal Decree by Law of 2022  Regulating the Profession of Experts  24 
 issuance of the executive regulations and resolutions thereof.  
  
Article (46) Publishing an d Entry into force of the Decree -Law  
The present Decree -Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force 
as of 2 January 2023.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
Issued at the Presidential Palace – Abu Dhabi  
On: 30 Safar 1444 AH;  
Corresponding to: 26 September 2022 AD;  
 