 
Federal Decree- Law No. (27) of 2018  Concerning Equality in Wages between Men and Women  1 
 Federal Decree- Law No. (27) of 2018  
Concerning Equality in Wages between Men and Women  
 
We Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan                      President of the United Arab Emirates  
− After reviewing the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972  concerning the Competences of Ministries and Powers of 
Ministers, and any amendments thereof;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1985  Promulgating the Civil Transactions Law in UAE, as 
amended;  
− Federal Decree- Law No. (11) of 2008 regarding the Human Resources in Federal 
Government, and any amendments thereof;  
− Federal Decree- Law No. (2) of 2015 concerning Combating Discrimination and Hatred;  
− And upon the approval of the Cabinet,  
Promulgate the following Decree -Law:  
  
Article (1) 
Definitions  
In application of the provisions of this Decree -Law, the following words and expressions 
shall have the meanings ascribed thereto unless the context requires otherwise:  
 State  : United Arab Emirates.  
Governmental 
Bodies  : Federal Governmental Ministries, Authorities, Institutions, 
Centres, Councils and Offices . 
 Salaries  : Basic salaries.  
  
Article (2) 
Provisions of this Decree -Law shall apply to Federal governmental bodies.  
  
  
Federal Decree- Law No. (27) of 2018  Concerning Equality in Wages between Men and Women  2 
 Article (3) 
The Government may not discriminate or distinguish in its applicable regulations and 
systems between labourers on the basis of gender concerning the value of salaries paid for 
any labourer at the same job grade, unless there are other reasons that require otherwise, 
such as academic qualification, specialization, professional skills, expertise or competences.  
  
Article (4) 
Any provision contrary to or inconsistent with the provisions of this Decree -Law shall be 
repealed.  
  
Article (5) 
This decree- Law shall be published in the official Gazette and shall come into force 14 from 
its date of publication.  
  
 
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of The United Arab Emirates  
 
 
 
Issued by Us at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi:  
Dated: 13 Muharram, 1440 H  
Corresponding to: 23 September 2018 AD  
 
 