 
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 1 
 Federal Law No. ( 9) of 20 06 
Concerning Residential Register and the Identity Card 
  
We, Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahayan,                  President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Having perused the constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 concerning the competencies of ministries and the powers 
of ministers as amended; and  
− Federal Law No. (17) of 1972 concerning the nationality and passports as amended; and  
− Federal Law No. (6) of 1973 concerning foreigners' e ntry and residence as amended; and  
− Federal Law No. (6) of 1975 concerning the regulation of registration of births and deaths as amended; and  
− Federal Law No. (7) of 1976 concerning the establishment of the Audit Bureau as 
amended; and  
− Federal Law No.  (8) of 1980 concerning the regulation of the labor relations as 
amended; and  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 1982 concerning the establishment of the general information 
Authority as amended; and  
− The penal code promulgated by Federal Law No. (35) of 1992; and  
− Federal Law No. (21) of 2001 concerning the civil service in the federal government as 
amended; and  
− The decree promulgating Federal Law No. (2) of 2004 concerning the establishment of the Emirates Identity Authority; and  
− Acting upon the submissions m ade by the Minister of Interior as approved by the 
Council of Ministers and ratified by the Federal Supreme Council,  
Have issued the following law:  
 
Article (1)  
In the application of this law, the following words and expressions shall have the meanings  
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 2 
 respectively assigned to them unless the contract required another meaning:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Authority  : Emirates ID Authority  
Board  : The Authority's Board of Directors  
Chairman  : The Board Chairman  
Director General  : The Authority Director General  
Authorities 
Concerned  : The federal and local government and other authorities determined by 
decision of the Council of Ministers upon proposal by the Chairman.  
Population 
Register  : The register of the State population containing personal data and civil 
events  
Personal Data  : The data that characterize every individual in particular and contain any of 
form of fingerprints, blood group, name an d date of change therein if any, 
address and residence, date and place of birth, sex, religion, nationality, 
residence for expatriates, marital condition, registration numbers of 
parents, husband, wife or children, academic qualification and 
specialization , job, profession and employment place, and any other data 
determined by the Board on the proposal of the Director General.  
Collected 
Statistics  : Total figures of one or more population data entered in the Authority's 
registers from which social, econom ic, security, cultural or other indicators 
can be inferred.  
Card  : The identification (ID) card issued in accordance with the provisions hereof.  
ID Number  : The unified number provided for in the decree promulgating Federal Law 
No. (2) of 2004 referred to above.  
  
Chapter One  
Establishment of & Registration in the System  
Article (2)  
A Population Register System shall be established for the registration of personal dat a, civil 
events of UAE nationals and expatriates residing in the State.  
   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 3 
 Article (3)  
Personal data and civil events of individuals shall be entered in the Population Register 
System according to what the Board decides on the proposal of the Director Gener al. 
Every citizen or expatriate residing in the State and entered in the Population Register 
System shall be designated a fixed number called the ID number.  
All Authorities Concerned shall record this number in individuals' transactions, registers and files and use it for organizing and keeping such transactions, registers and files without 
disrupting the organization or keeping methods applied by such authorities.  
  
Article (4)  
1. Individuals subject to the provisions of this Law shall apply to register  their names in the 
Residential Register System within the time limits and stages determined by the Board's 
decision.  
2. The registration application request shall be submitted by the concerned person or his representative, or in accordance to the Board' s decision.  
  
Article (5)  
Authorities Concerned shall within the limits of their respective attributions notify the 
Authority of any personal data, civil events and any changes or amendments to such data or 
events within the time limits pursuant to the pro cedures determined by the Board decision 
on the proposal of the Director General.  
  
Article (6)  
Subject to the provisions of Para 1 of article (4) hereof , individuals entered in the Population 
Register System shall notify the Autho rity of any change or amendment to their personal 
data or civil events within the time limits and pursuant to the procedures determined by the 
Board on the proposal of the Director General. The person who receives such notification shall give the notifier relevant proof after identifying him.  
In all cases, notification by the person concerned or his representative shall take place in conformity with the Board decision on the proposal of the Director General.   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 4 
 Article (7)  
The Authority may request individuals  and special artificial persons covered by the 
provisions hereof to give any data or information they may have concerning themselves if 
the same is necessary for the Population Register System or the other registers of the 
Authority. Relevant procedures an d time limits shall be determined by the Chairman's 
decision after the Board approval is obtained.  
  
Article (8)  
Embassies and consulates of the State located abroad shall notify the Authority of personal data, civil events and any changes therein that are  received from citizens residing within 
their jurisdictions.  
  
Chapter Two  
Identification Cards  
Article (9)  
The Authority shall issue to every individual entered in the Population Register System a card called the identification (ID) card.  
Subject to the provisions of article (4) hereof , an application must be submitted to extract 
the card for any person who attains the age of fifteen years within six months from the date of attaining this age.  
A decision shall be made by the Board on the pr oposal of the Director General to determine 
the form of the card, the details it must contain and the procedures for extracting it.  
Proving the identity with this card exclusively shall be approved subject to what the council 
of ministers may decide.  
  
Article (10)  
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 9 of this Law, and except for cases of necessity determined by the Board of Directors upon the proposal of the Director General, no 
employee, user, worker, student or whoever person may be accepted, used or retained 
unless he/she has the card.   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 5 
 This prohibition's enforcement date and implementation mechanism shall be determined by 
a Board resolution upon the proposal of the Director General and published in the Official 
Gazette.  
  
Article (11)  
If the card is lost, damaged,  or changed in respect of the data recorded therein, the holder 
shall notify the same to the Authority within the time limits and pursuant to the procedures 
determined by the Board decision on the proposal of the Director General.  
  
Chapter Three  
Extraction of Data  
Article (12)  
Every individual may obtain an official copy of the personal data pertaining to his person, ancestors, descendants or wives. Similarly, the family head may extract such data for the 
individuals he has register ed in accordance wit h the text of Para 2 of article (4) hereof.  
Such data may not be given to any person other than those mentioned in the preceding 
paragraph without a special power of attorney from the person concerned, provided that 
such power of attorn ey is authenticated in conformity with established rules.  
 
Article (13)  
Without prejudice to the provisions of article (12)  hereof, the Authorities Concerned may 
obtain from the Authority an official copy of the data entered in the population register if t he 
same is necessary for it to undertake their functions in accordance with the executive regulations hereof.  
  
Article (14)  
The Director General may, in conformity with the rules determined by the Board give 
comprehensive statistical data for the purposes of scientific research, community  and 
demographic studies. Persons interested in obtaining such data shall be required to submit   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 6 
 an application using the Authority -prepared form accompanied by the Board -determined 
documents. The Director General s hall be entitled to reject the application and inform the 
applicant of such rejection in writing after verifying the viability of such information for the 
required purposes and fulfilling any other conditions deemed necessary by the Board.  
The rejection de cision may be appealed within the time limits and pursuant to the 
procedures determined by the Board on the proposal of the Director General. The Chairman's decision on the appeal shall be final.  
  
Article (15)  
Any person having obtained information pursuant to the provisions of Articles (13) and (14) hereof shall not use the same for other than the purpose wherefore the Authority agreed to 
give him such information and  shall abide by the conditions whereon such information has 
been given to him.  
Without pr ejudice to the penalty prescribed in article (18)  hereof, the Authority may not 
give violators the data they may request in the future for any period it may determine.  
  
Chapter Four  
Penalties  
Article (16)  
"The Cabinet shall, upon the proposal of the Board, issue a resolution specifying the fines that the Authority shall impose on any person who violates any of the provisions of Articles 
6 and 10 of this Law, amounting to no more than AED 1,000. The fine shall be multiplied by 
the number of persons a gainst whom the violation has been committed."  
  
Article (17)  
There shall be punished by a fine of no more than five thousand Dirhams any person who 
violates the provisions of article (7)  hereof . 
  
Article (18)   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 7 
 Without prejudice to any stricter penalty provided for in any other law, there shall be 
punished by imprisonment for a period of no more than six month and a fine of no more 
than five thousand Dirhams or either penalty any person who gives incorrect inform ation 
for the Population Register System.  
  
Article (19)  
Without prejudice to any stricter penalty provided for in any other law, there shall be 
punished by imprisonment for a perio d of no more than six month and a fine of no more 
than five thousand Dirham s or either penalty any person who, in bad faith, violates Articles 
(14) and (15) hereof.  
  
Article (20)  
There shall be considered an aggravating circumstance,  the violation by representatives, 
managers, agents or Board members of the artificial person of the provisions of article (14) 
or (15) hereof.  
In case of those mentioned in the preceding paragraph being convicted, the Court may decide that the person affiliated to the convict be suspended from pursuing his activity for 
the period it may determine if the violation is committed in his name or for his interest.  
  
Article (21)  
Without prejudice to any stricter penalty provided for in any other law, there shall be 
punished by imprisonment for a period of no less than three month and no more than three 
year s any person who discloses a work secret, a datum of the population register, any other 
data, information or collected statistics registered by the Authority that he may have access 
to by reason of his job.  
  
Chapter Five  
General Provisions  
Article (22)   
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 8 
 The population register and identity card system shall be implemented according to the 
stages to be determined by the Board on the proposal of the Director General.  
  
Article (23)  
The forms pertaining to the application of the provisions hereof shall be de termined by the 
Board on the proposal of the Director General.  
  
Article (24)  
Fees of the procedures pertaining to the application of the provisions hereof shall be determined by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Board.  
  
Article (25)  
A natio nal committee may be formed by a decision of the Council of Ministers on the 
proposal of the Board to review the personal data before they are entered in the population 
register or the other registers of the Authority. The decision forming the committee sh all 
determine its functions while its operational procedures shall be determined by the 
executive regulations hereof.  
  
Article (26)  
The executive regulations hereof shall determine the correction procedures of the personal 
data and civil events already en tered in the population register.  
  
Article (27)  
Data entered in the card, population register, the other registers of the Authority, certificates 
and their official extracts shall be deemed evidence in respect of the entries recorded therein 
unless a conc lusive adjudication proves anything to the contrary, or that they are invalid or 
false.  
Article (28)  
The Chairman may authorize the Vice Chairman to assume some of the functions assigned  
Federal Law No. (9) of 2006  Concerning Residential Register and the I dentity Card 9 
 to him hereunder. The Vice -Chairman shall act for the Chairman in his  absence.  
Article (29)  
The Minister of Justice shall by agreement with the Chairman issue a decision vesting some 
of the Authority personnel the capacity of Judicial Officers to record any violations of the 
provisions hereof and the decisions issued for th e implementation thereof within their 
respective spheres of competence.  
  
Chapter Six  
Final Provisions 
Article (30)  
The Chairman shall issue the executive regulations hereof after obtaining the approval of 
the Board.  
  
Article (31)  
Any provision contrary or contradictory to the provisions hereof shall be repealed.  
  
Article (32)  
This law shall be published in the official gazette and applied from the date of publication.  
  
 
 
 
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahayan  
 President of the United Arab Emirates  
  
 
Issue by us in the Presidential Palace at Abu Dhabi  
On : 9 Rabie Al -Aakher 1427 A.H.  
Corresponding to 7 May 2006 A.D.  