Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (107) of 2022  
Concerning t he Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (37) of 2021  
Concerning the Commercial Register  
 
The Cabinet,  
- Having reviewed:  
- The Constitution; and  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended; and  
- Federal Law No. (18) of 1981 Regulating Commercial Agencies, as amended ; and  
- Federal Law No. (17) of 2002 Concerning the Regulation and Protec tion of Industrial Property 
of Patents and Industrial Designs and Models, as amended; and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. (32) of 2021 Concerning Commercial Companies;  and  
- Federal Law No. (36) of 2021 on Trademarks;  and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. (37) of 2021 Concerning the Commercial Register ; and  
- Cabinet Resolution  No. (58) of 2020 Regulating the Beneficial Owner Procedures; and  
- Based on the Proposal of the Minister of Economy, and the approval thereof by the Cabinet,  
Hereby resolves as follows:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
For the purpose of applying the provisions of the present Resolution, the following words and 
expressions shall have the meanings assigned thereto respectively, unless the context requires 
otherwise:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Ministry  : The Ministry of Economy.  
Minister  : The Minister of Economy.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  2 
 Competent 
Authority  : The local government entity and the free zones authorities that are 
vested with the authority to issue licenses for economic activities, 
including commercial, i ndustrial, tourist, media and other 
economic activities licensed in the State.  
Economic Activit y : Economic activities include commercial, industrial, tourist, media 
and other economic activities licensed in the State.  
License  : A document issued by the Competent Authority stating that an 
establishment is licensed to practice its economic activity after 
being registered in the Commercial Register.  
Deregistration  : An administrative procedure conducted by the Competent 
Authority to modify the establishment’s data entered in the 
Commercial Register, in any of the cases set forth in article (9) of 
the Decree -Law and article (8) of the present Resolution.  
Commercial 
Company:  : A company subject to the provisions of Federal Decree -Law No. 
(32) of 2021 Concerning Commercial Companies.  
Establishment  : Any entity subject to the provisions of article (3) of the Decree -Law.  
Commercial 
Register  : A database to be created at the Competent Authority, in which the 
names and data of the persons subject to the provisions of the 
Decree -Law shall be at the Competent Authority, each within its 
respective areas of competence.  
Economic 
Register  : A database to be created at the Ministry and containing the data of 
the Commercial Register, including the  names and data of the 
persons subject to the provisions of the Decree -Law and the 
Commercial Register Number provided by the Competent 
Authority, in addition to any other data determined by the present 
Resolution.  
Commercial 
Register Number  : An identifi cation number assigned to the establishment practicing 
the economic activity when being registered in the Commercial 
Register at the Competent Authority.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  3 
 Economic 
Register Number  : An identification number assigned to the establishment practicing 
the econ omic activity when being registered in the Economic 
Register at the Ministry.  
Decree -Law  : Federal Decree -Law No. (37) of 2021 Concerning the Commercial 
Register.  
 
Article (2)  
Commercial Register  
The Commercial Register shall contain the following data and information:  
1. Data of the establishment practicing the economic activity:  
a. Commercial Register Number;  
b. Economic Register Number after being  issu ed by the Ministry ; 
c. Trade name in both Arabic and English;  
d. Date of incorporation;  
e. Phone number and email address;  
f. License number, and issuance and expiry date;  
g. License Status , to verify  the license validity and whether it is suspended or placed under 
liquidation or deregistered ; 
h. Type of the License, including commercial, industrial, professional, craft, and other 
licenses ; 
i. Legal Form;  
j. Amount of the capital, the number of shares or stocks and their nominal value (if any) ; 
k. Address of the establishment ; 
l. No. of the Establishment Card with the  Federal Authority For Identity, Citizenship, 
Customs and Port Security;  
m. The Branch’s License (if any);   
n. The Branch’s Name in both Arabic and English;  
o. Local License Number;  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  4 
 p. License Number of the parent establishment ; 
q. GPS coordinates, and virtual licenses that do not require a geographical location to 
practice  their activity may be excluded;  
r. Date of any change and modification to the establishment’s data in the license;  
s. No. and name of the economic activity; and  
t. Name of the manager  or the c hairman of the board of directors, as the case may be.  
2. Data of the owners, including partners or shareholders:  
a. Their name s in both Arabic and English ; 
b. Gender and date of birth;  
c. Nationality;  
d. ID card data for nationals and residents of the State, or passport  data for non -residents;  
e. Phone number and email  address;  
f. Registration number.  
g. Local  number for non -residents in the State  (if any) ; 
h. Name and legal form of the partners or shareholders which  are legal persons, according 
to the License ; 
3. Data of the Management:  
a. Names of the board members or managers , as the case may be, in both Arabic and English;  
b. ID card data for nationals and residents of the State, or passport data for non -residents;  
c. Nationality of the board members or managers ; 
d. Phone number and email address;  
4. Data of the beneficial owner in accordance with Cabinet Resolution No. (58) of 2020 
Reg ulating the Beneficial Owner Procedures . 
 
Article (3)  
Registration in the Commercial Register  
1. The Competent Authority shall regulate the requirements and procedures for registration in 
the Commercial Register and publish  the same on its website.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  5 
 2. Taking into account the data contained in Clause (1) of article (5) of the Decree -Law, the 
applicant for registration in the Commercial Register shall provide  the following documents 
and fulfill the following requirements:  
a. A trade name reservation certific ate that shall contain  the name, legal form, and activity 
of the establishment, provided that the trade name and the economic activity do not 
breach public order.  
b. The applicant shall be fully competent . 
c. A valid ID card or passport of the board members or m anagers.  
d. The license, memorandum of association, or articles of association, as the case may be, as 
for the partners or shareholders of the establishment applying for  registration in the 
Commercial Register if it is a legal person.  
e. A valid ID card or passp ort of the shareholders of the establishment applying for  
registration in the Commercial Register if they are natural persons.  
 
Article (4)  
Annotating the Commercial Register with any Change or Modification  
The Competent Authority may, sua sponte , annotate  the Commercial Register with  any change 
or modification to the establishment ’s data  entered therein , within no more than (3) three 
working  days after fulfilling the prescribed controls, in any of the following cases:  
1. Issuing a decision by any government or relevant  entity that would change or modify the 
establishment ’s data ; or 
2. Failure to renew the establishment ’s registration within the period specified by the 
Competent Authority . 
 
Article (5) 
Correction of Errors  
In the event that a material or procedural error is committed during the registration, modification 
or renewal of the establishment’s data in the Commercial Register or any other procedures , the Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  6 
 Competent Authority shall correct such error  within no more than  (3) three working days from  
the date of detect ing the error or  from  the date of receiving the data correction application 
submitted by an interested person or the legal representative of the establishment , in accordance 
with the controls issued thereby in this regard and the applicable procedures . 
 
Article (6)  
Renewing Registration in the Commercial Register  
1. The establishment’s registration in the Commercial Register shall be renewed within the 
period dete rmined  by the Competent Authority subject to  the following controls:  
a. Fulfilling all the requirements of the entities  relevant to the economic activity of the 
establishment ; 
b. Providing a  certified copy of the lease agreement  for the establishment’s premises, or as 
required by the Competent Authority in this regard ; 
c. Any other controls determined by the Competent Authority . 
2. An application for renewal of registration in the Commercial Register shall be submitted to 
the Competent  Authority on  the form designated  for this purpose, and accompanied by 
documents supporting the validity of the data referred to in the Decree -Law and the present  
Resolution.  
3. The Competent Authority shall scrutinize  the application and verify that it meets  the 
prescribed conditions  and contains the required  documents and data, and  it shall issue its 
decision thereon within the period specified under  its regulations . Such period shall 
commence  from the date of fulfilling the registration renewal requirements . 
4. In the event that  the application  is approved  and the registration in the Commercial Register 
is renewed , the Competent Authority shall issue the registration renew al license with the 
same registration number of the establishment in the Commercial Register issued for the first 
time and for the period determined  by the Competent Authority , after paying the prescribed 
fees.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  7 
 Article (7)  
Use of the Commercial Register Number  
The persons governed by the provisions here of shall be  oblig ated to use and mention the 
Commercial Register Number  in all their documents and printed material , in their business and 
transactions with third parties, as well as on the website of the establishment in a clear and 
accessible manner.  
 
Article (8)  
Cases of Deregistration from the Commercial Register  
Subject to the provisions of article (9) of the Decree -Law, t he person governed by the provisions 
of the Decree -Law or its representative, inheritors or liquidators, as the case may  be, shall apply  
for d eregistration from the Commercial Register in any of the following cases:  
1. The establishment ceases to practice its activity , within the period specified by the Competent 
Authority and in accordance with the applicable procedures , and t he cessation period shall 
be calculated from the date of non -renewal of the license or the date of actual cessation , 
whichever is earlier ; 
2. Closure of the establishment;  
3. Merger of commercial companies;  
4. The establishment practices any activity not licensed by t he Competent Authority.  
 
Article (9)  
Controls and Procedures for Deregistration from the Commercial Register  
1. In the event that the Competent Authority deregisters  the establishment from the Commercial 
Register , it shall notify the establishment there of within one month from the date of 
notification. If the period set out  in this Clause lapses without an acceptable justification , 
given by the establishment,  for not deregistering the same , the Competent Authority  shall 
deregister the establishment and publish a decision to that effect on its website.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  8 
 2. In the case  that the establishment desires to be deregistered  from the Commercial Register , it 
shall submit an application on the form approved by the Competent Autho rity, accompanied 
by the documents supporting the validity of the data contained therein, including defining the 
nature of the procedure that it desires  to deregister. T he Competent Authority shall issue  its 
decision on the application in accordance with its regulations.  
 
Article (10)  
Controls and Procedures for the Re-Registration in the Commercial Register  
In the event that the establishment desires to be re -registered in the Commercial Register, it shall 
comply with  the following controls and procedures:  
1. Compl ying with all the controls stipulated in article (5) of the Decree -Law and article (3) 
hereof;  
2. Submitting an application for re -registration in the Commercial Register to  the Competent 
Authority on  the form design ated for this purpose, accompanied by documents supporting 
the validity of the data contained therein, within the period determined  by the Competent 
Authority;  
3. After fulfilling the requirements and controls, the Competent Authority shall decide on the 
appl ication for re -registration. If the application is approved, the applicant shall be given a 
certificate of re -registration in the Commercial Register after paying the prescribed fee.  
 
Article (11)  
Court Judgments and Annotation in the Commercial Register  
Subject to the provisions of the legislation in force, t he courts or judicial committees, as the case 
may be, shall send , by any modern means,  to the Competent Authority, a copy of the judgments 
or decisions set forth in article (10) of the Decree -Law , within no more than (5) five working days 
from the date  on which  the judgment becomes final or definitive.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  9 
 Article (12)  
Liens on the Business Premises  
The Competent Authority shall enter  any mortgage created on the business  premises  or on any 
of it s elements, such as the trade name, trademark, patents, industrial property rights, intellectual 
property rights and other elements of the business  premises , in the Commercial Register 
according to the following procedures:  
1. The mortgage applicant shall submit  to the Competent Authority an application for 
mortgag ing the business  premises or any of its elements on the form designated  for this 
purpose , accompanied by the documents supporting such  application . 
2. The Competent Author ity shall scrutinize  the application for mortgaging the business  
premises or any of its elements and shall issue its decision thereon  within the period 
determined thereby under its regulations. If the application is approved, the Competent 
Authority shall  issue a certificate of mortgage of the business premises  or any of its elements, 
as the case may be.  
 
Article (13)  
Economic Register  
1. Taking into account the private data of the persons  subject to the provisions of the Decree -
Law and th e present  Resolution, the Economic Register shall contain the  data related to 
trademarks, commercial agencies, protection of industrial property of patents, designs  and  
models, and other data, provided tha t such data are  determined in coordination with the 
entities concerned.  
2. The Ministry shall create an Economic Register Number to be assigned  to the establishment 
upon its registration. The establishment shall use  such number  in its procedures and dealings 
with government entities  in the State . Furthermore, t he Ministry shall  use the Economic 
Register Number in the data it exchanges with government entities . 
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  10 
 Article (14)  
Publishing Data of the Commercial Register or the Economic Register  
1. The Ministry and the Competent Authority, as the case may be, may publish on its website 
the following data of the Commercial Register or the Economic Register : 
a. Commercial Register Number;  
b. Economic Register Number;  
c. Trade name in both Arabic and English;  
d. Date o f incorporation of the establishment;  
e. Phone number and email address;  
f. License number, and issuance and expiry date;  
g. License Status, to verify the license validity and whether it is suspended or placed under 
liquidation or deregistered;  
h. Type of the Licens e, including commercial, industrial, professional, craft, or other licenses;  
i. Legal Form  of the establishment ; 
j. Amount of the establishment’s capital, the number of shares or stocks and their nominal 
value (if any);  
k. Address of the establishment;  
l. The Branch’s License (if any);  
m. The Branch’s Name in both Arabic and English;  
n. Local License Number;  
o. License Number of the parent establishment;  
p. Date of any change and modification to the establishment’s data;  
q. No. and name of the economic act ivity; and  
r. Name of the manager  or the chairman of the board of directors, as the case may be.  
2. The Ministry may, in coordination with the Competent Authority and government entities, 
publish any other data on its website.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  11 
 Article (15)  
Having Access to Data  
1. Any interested person  or stakeholder  may apply to  the Ministry or the Competent Authority, 
as the case may be, for  obtain ing an extract of the data provided for  in article (14) hereof . 
2. The government entities may apply to the Ministry or the Competent Authority for hav ing 
access to , or obtaining an extract of, the registration data  entered in  the Commercial Register 
or the Economic Register , in accordance with the procedures applicable in this regard, 
provided that the application contains an indication to the nature of the data for which the 
application  is made.  
 
Article (16)  
Linking  and Sharing D ata 
1. The Competent Authority shall share all the data contained in the Commercial Register  or in 
any other database, including data related to judgments and decisions issued b y courts or 
judicial committees  and any change or update thereto, with the Economic Register and shall 
link the same  to the said Register , in a way that provides instantaneous linking of such  data, 
enhances digital transformation and makes the shared services  available . 
2. Without prejudice to the provisions of Clause (1) of this Article, the Competent Authority 
shall , in case  of any technical challenges related to linking and sharing the data  contained in 
the Commercial Register or in any other database, share such data with the Economic 
Register , within no more than (3) three working days , by any means to be adopted in 
coordination with the Ministry.  
 
Article (17)  
Repeals  
Any provision inconsistent or discrepant with the provisions of the present Resolution is hereby 
repealed.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 22 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal  Decree -Law of 20 21 Concerning the 
Commercial Register  12 
 Article (18)  
Publishing and Entry into Force  
The present Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force from  
the day following its publishing date.  
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by us on:  
13 Jumada Al -Awwal 1444 A .H. 
Corresponding to: 7 December 2022  AD 