Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (45) of 2018  Concerning the Executive 
Regulation s of Federal Law No. (11) o f 2015  Controlling the Trade in 
and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  
 
The Cabinet;  
− Upon review of the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 concern ing the Competences of Ministries and 
Powers of Ministers, and any amendments thereof;  
−  Federal Law No. (28) of 2001 Concerning Setting up of Emirates Specifications 
and Standards Authority, and amendments thereof;  
− Federal Law No. (11) of 2015 Controllin g the trade in and stamping of precious 
stones and metals;  
− And upon the approval of the Cabinet;  
The following has been decided:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In application of the Provisions of this Resolution, the following words and phrases 
shall have the  meanings assigned to them, unless the context indicates otherwise:  
UAE:  : means the United Arab Emirates;  
ESMA:  : Emirates Authority for Standardisation and Metrology  
Competent 
Authority:  : Local Authority competent to apply provisions of this 
Resoluti on. 
Committee:  : Committee of controlling the trade in precious stones and 
metals.  
Stamping:  : Tagging the precious metal to indicate its type and its legal 
carat or purity rank.  
Official Stamp  : The stamp approved in State by the Authority.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  2 
 Foreign St amp  : The foreign stamp recognised by the Authority.  
Registered 
Agency  : The government, local or foreign agency registered with the 
Authority.  
Approved 
Agency  : The agency fulfilling the requirements of the National 
Accreditation System in accordance wi th Law of Setting up of 
Emirates Specifications and Standards Authority.  
Stamping 
Agency  : The agen cy approved or registered with the Authority for 
tagging the precious metals with the official stamp  
The Agency 
Granting the 
Certifications  : The agency ap proved or registered with the Authority to grant 
certifications in the field of precious metal and stones  
Precious Metals  : Gold, silver and platinum and its set, they shall be either in the 
form of processed or non -processed items.  
Precious Stones  : The  natural gemstones, organic or inorganic, manufactured 
gemstones and Semi -precious stones specified in Annex No. 
(2) attached to this Resolution.  
Processed Items  : Each piece manufactured in whole or in part from a precious 
metal that the purity rank the rein is not less than the rank 
specified in this Resolution. It shall also include the bullions, 
medals and currencies globally circulated, the ones that no 
longer have a legal tender or the ones that have a historical 
value.  
Non -Processed 
Items  : The non -manufactured precious metal bullions.  
Low -Carat 
Items or Low-
Purity Items  : Each piece of a preci ous metal that the purity rank therein is 
less than the rank specified in this Resolution.  
Inlaid items  : Each piece of a precious metal or other inlaid wi th precious 
metal or stones.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  3 
 Coated Items  : Each piece of a precious or non -precious metal coated with a 
precious metal.  
Legal Carats  : The numbers indicating the percentage of the pure precious 
metal in the processed and non -processed items. They shall 
also mean the number of portions or fractions in the weight of 
the pure precious metal per each mill  from the weight of these 
items which are specified in this Law.  
Fraction  : One portion per mill (1/1000).  
Carat  : A measurement unit to weight the preci ous stones; one carat 
shall be equal to 200 milligrams (1/5 gram).  
Certificate  : The document issued by the approved or registered agency, 
which contains the identification data of the precious stones, 
jewellery items or metals and for the resolutions is sued to 
apply provisions of this Resolution.  
Label  : The card labelled, affixed or attached to the precious stones, a 
jewellery item or the precious artefacts metals that are difficult 
to be stamped, which contain the identification data of these 
stones a nd metals according to the international approved 
standards.  
Product  : The precious stones and metals, processed and non -processed, 
that are circulated.  
Provider  : The party responsible for issuing the product in the sale outlets 
using all means, includi ng the electronic means. Such party 
shall be subject to provisions of this Resolution and shall 
include the manufacturer, liquidator, seller, importer, agent, 
collector, sub -distributor or the commercial or legal 
representative.  
Issuance  : Any operation made on the product targeting its sale, rent, 
presentation or provision to the consumer or the possession of Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  4 
 the product in order to conduct any operation therefrom, in 
return for payment or free of charge.  
The Law  : Federal Law No. 11 of 2015 Controlling  the trade in and 
stamping of precious stones and metals.  
 
Article (2)  
Everyone issues any precious  metal shall be committed to the legal carats specified in 
article (2) of the Law and Annex No. (1) attached to this Resolution.  
 
Article (3)  
1. Platinum and P alladium metals shall form the platinum set and the legal carats for 
the artefacts  of the licensed platinum set shall be in accordance with provisions of 
article (2) and article (3) of this Law, as stated in Annex No. (1) attached to this 
Resolution.  
2. Produ cts of diamond, pearl, natural gemstones and manufactured gemstones 
whose names, classes and particu lars stated in Annex (2) attached to this 
Resolution shall be deemed precious stones and shall subject to provisions of the 
Law and this Resolution.  
 
Article (4)  
The provider shall be prohibited to sell, or offer to sell, the processed items or possess 
them with intent to sell in any of the sale manners unless have any of the following:  
1. They shall be stamped with the official stamp as determined by Annex No. (3) or 
attached to a label; if their size does not allow for stamping, according to the 
measurements  approved for the stamping dimensions specified in Annex (3) 
attached to this Resolution, a label shall be attached thereto.  
2. They shall be stamped with the foreign stamp.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  5 
 3. The processed items containing precious stones shall be accompanied by 
certificates special for these stones if their weights are equal or exceeding the 
weights specified in article (7) of this Resolution.  
4. The labels referred to in this Arti cle shall be clear and may not be removed, as well 
as, they shall be made of a durable and long -term  material, they also shall include 
the data shown in the mentioned tables.  
5. The Authority shall specify the mechanism of affixing, stamping and using the 
official stamp and the label on the processed items.  
 
Article (5)  
1. It is not permissible to export the precious metals, whether processed or non -
processed, and precious stones unless accompanied by a certificate of origin or the 
export label, as determined in Annex No. (5) attached to this Resolution.  
2. The label referred to in this Article requires to be clear and installed so that it may 
not be removed, as well as, it shall be made of a durable and long -term material, it 
also shall include the data specified in  the Annex No. (5) mentioned.  
3. The export label referred to in this Article shall be allocated to the products 
prepared for exportation and may not be issued in the State.  
4. If the precious metals and stones referred to in this Article which are accompanied 
by the certificates issued from government agencies contain the data referred to in 
this Article and these certificates are accepted by the Authority, these certificates, 
in this case, may be sufficient and replace the export certificate referred to in this  
Resolution.  
 
Article (6)  
1. The official stamp shall include the following elements:  
a. The trademark of the precious metal used as an official stamp as determined 
by Annex No. (3) attached to this Resolution.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  6 
 b. The mark of the carat or purity rank of the precio us metal in accordance with 
the legal carats specified in the Law and Annex No. (1) attached to this 
Resolution.  
c. The distinctive form approved by the Authority which indicates the stamping 
agency as determined by Annex No. (3) attached to this Resolution.  
2. The approved standard specifications and manuals whose titles and numbers 
stated in Annex No. (6) attached to this Resolution shall specify the methods of 
testing, examination and sampling used in measuring and determining the purity 
and carat rank of the artefacts  and bullions of precious metals.  
 
Article (7)  
1. The precious stones shall be accompanied by a certificate including the data 
specified in Annex No. (7) attached to this Resolution, according to the following:  
a. One polished diamond piece if the weigh t of the one piece is equal to or 
exceeding (0.30) carat.  
b. One piece of the precious stones (coloured) if the weight of the one piece is 
equal to or exceeding (1) carat.  
c. One seed pearl if the measurement of the one seed id equal to or exceeding (3) 
mm . 
2. The  processed item shall be accompanied by a certificate if containing any of the 
following:  
a. One or more polished diamond pieces if the weight of the one piece is equal to 
or exceeding (0.5) carat.  
b. One piece or more of the precious stones (coloured) if the weight of the one 
piece is equal to or exceeding (2) carats.  
c. One seed pearl or more if the measurement of the one seed is equal to or 
exceeding (10.0) mm.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  7 
 3. Notwithstanding what had been contained in this Article, and dealer may request 
the certificate from  the certificates granting agency if the weights or measurements 
are less than what had been specified in this Article.  
 
Article (8)  
For purposes of the commercial trade, the item shall be deemed of low carat or purity 
rank if the percentage of the preciou s metal therein is less than the following:  
1. 500 portions  per gold.  
2. 800 portions  per silver.  
3. 850 portions  per platinum.  
 
Article (9)  
Items specified in this Article shall be accompanied by a label including the data 
specified in Annex No. (8) in case they are presented in the sale outlets, provided that 
a designated place, to differentiate between them and other items specified in Article 
(3) of this Resolution, shall be determined for them; these items are as follows:  
1. Low -carat, low -purity ranks or inlaid items:  
2. The low -carat items which contain stones with weight or measurement less than 
what had been specified by article (7) of this Resolution; these items are not 
required to be accompanied by a certificate.  
 
Article (10)  
The coated items shall be accomp anied by a label indicating the type of the precious 
metal used for coating, provided that it shall state that the item is coated in case it is 
presented in the sale outlets of the items processed by the precious metals.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  8 
 Article (11)  
The following shall be required for conducting the activity of stamping or issuing the 
certificates of the precious metals or stones:  
1. The party conducting the activity shall get an approval certificate from the 
Authority in accordance with provisions of the Cabinet Resolution  No. (35) of 
2015 Regarding UAE System for Control of Conformity Assessment Bodies (CAB).  
2. Compliance with provisions of the Law, this Resolution, application of the 
standard specifications approved for methods of testing and examination to 
determine the pu rity of the precious metal and manuals according to Annexes (1), 
(2), (3) and (6) attached to  this Resolution.  
 
Article (12)  
For organising exhibits for the processed items and precious stones, the following shall 
be required:  
1. Obtaining a licence from the  Competent Authority.  
2. Complying with the legal carats specified in the Law and this Resolution.  
3. Not to issue the processed items or precious stones in exhibits for sale unless being 
stamped by the official stamp or accompanied by a label in accordance wi th 
provisions of the Law and this Resolution.  
4. A certificate shall be attached to the processed items that contain precious stones 
as stated in article (7) of this Resolution.  
 
Article (13)  
1. The definitions, terms and classifications in the labels and cert ificates shall be used 
as contained in the Law, the Resolution and Annexes attached thereto, as the case 
may be.  
2. It is prohibited to use any abbreviations, suggestion or names on the certificate or 
label for the stones that are not specified in this Resolu tions and Annexes attached 
thereto.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  9 
 3. The competent Authority in each Emirate shall undertake the application of the 
control on the product to ensure the fulfilment of the requirements of this 
Resolution.  
4. Annexes attached to this Resolution shall be deemed an integral part therefrom. 
The Cabinet shall have the right to suggest an amendment thereto if required.  
5. This Resolution shall not prevent the inspectors of the Competent Authorities from 
controlling and sampling to conduct another test in order to apply  the relevant 
legalisation.  
6. All authorities subject to provisions of this Resolution shall provide the inspectors 
of the Competent Authorities with help and information, they require, related to 
apply pr ovisions thereof.  
7. It is permissible to put the patch  mark on the label without being stamped in cases 
and mechanisms determined by the Authority.  
8. In case there is a case that may not be treated under provisions of this Resolution 
or there is a dispute upon the application, the matter shall be submitted to the 
General Manager to issue the decision he deems proper for the public interest.  
9. The Authority shall issue the procedures and technical requirements required for 
applying provisions of this Resolution.  
 
Article (14)  
Any provision contrary to or inconsi stent with the provisions of this Resolution shall 
be repealed.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  10 
 Article (15)  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into effect 
from the day following the date of publication thereof.  
 
Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by us:  
On: 20 Muharram, 1440 H  
Corresponding to 30 September 2018 AD  
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  11 
 The Annexes Attached Under the Cabinet Resolution No. (45) of 2018  
Concerning the Executive Regulation of Federal Law No. (11) of 2015  
Controlling the Trade in a nd Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  
 
Annex N o (1) 
Platinum Set  
The legal carats for the items of the platinum set licensed in accordance with 
provisions of article (2) and article (3) of the Law, according to the international 
standards issued by the  World Jewellery Confederation (CIBJO), which are issued in 
the Blue Book.  
Platinum Set (Platinum and Palladium metals)  
Artefacts  Legal Carats (purity rank)  
 
 
 
 
 
Platinum  Purity rank* (number of portions of the 
precious metal)  Notes  
Purity rank is 999,  this is the very pure 
platinum which contains 999 platinum 
portions  Very pure platinum (the 
highest carat for the 
platinum artefacts ). 
Purity rank is 950 and contains 950 
platinum portions.   
Purity rank is 900 and contains 900 
platinum portions.   
Purity rank is 850 and contains 850 
platinum portions.  The lowest carat for the 
platinum artefacts  under 
the law.  
Palladium  Purity rank is 999, this is the very pure 
palladium which contains 999 palladium 
portions  Very pure palladium (the 
highest carat fo r the 
palladium artefacts ).  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  12 
  Purity rank is 950 and contains 950 
palladium portions.   
 Purity rank is 500 and contains 500 
palladium portions.  The lowest carat for the 
palladium artefacts . 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  13 
 Annex N o (2) 
The precious stones according to the internation al standards issued by the World 
Jewellery Confederation (CIBJO), which are issued in the Blue Book.  
 
1. Diamond  
 Natural products  Artificial products  
 
 
Classifications of 
products  
Classification of 
materials  Diamond  Diamond 
naturally 
formed 
under 
geologic al 
conditions, 
without any 
external 
intervention 
during the 
formation 
process.   Synthetic diamonds 
(unnatural), Synthetic 
product has the same 
chemical composition, 
physical properties and 
diamond stricture and was 
produced through the 
manufacturing method s. 
  
Treated 
Diamond  
(Treated 
(Diamond   
 
Natural 
diamond 
that was 
treated to 
change its 
colour or 
purity.   
 
Manufacturing 
products  
in whole or in 
part  Imitated or falsified 
(Imitations): a product 
similar to the diamond in 
appearance but different 
in t he chemical 
composition, physical 
properties or diamond 
structure.  
    Composite products, 
gemstones, previously Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  14 
 separate, of two or more 
pieces or layers that had 
been collected via the link 
or any other synthetic 
method. Their 
components may be 
natural and/or synthetic, 
however, they shall 
contain at least one part of 
diamond.  
 
2. Pearls  
 Pearl products  Products of the treated pearls  
 Natural Pearls  It is made up by the 
aquaculture of the 
mollusc that live in 
waters  Natural 
treated 
pearls  The natural pea rls 
that were adopted 
to change its 
appearance, 
structure and/or 
durability by using 
other methods 
that may not be 
deemed normal 
methods.  
 
 
Classification of 
pearl categories  Cultured 
pearls  The synthetic pearl that 
is made up due to 
human intervention in  
areas inside the mollusc 
in various 
circumstances specified Treated 
Cultured 
pearls  The synthetic 
pearls that were 
adopted to change 
its appearance, 
structure and/or 
durability by using Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  15 
 according to the nature 
of the mollusc and the 
intended goal.  other m ethods 
that may not be 
deemed normal 
methods.  
 Artificially 
produced 
Composite 
Cultured 
pearls  It is made up of two or 
more parts; usually one 
of the parts at least is 
hollow and repackaged 
with a cultured pearl, 
the parts were linked; 
they may be collect ed 
via the link or other 
synthetic methods.    
 Imitations of 
pearls  
(Imitations of 
pearls)  The products that 
imitate the form of the 
natural or cultured 
pearl only.    
 
3. Gemstones (coloured stone)  
 Natural products  Artificial products  
 Gemstones  
Gemston es Mineral or organic 
material naturally 
composite in full 
without human 
intervention 
during the 
composition 
period. The 
jeweller may  
 
Products produced 
in part or whole by 
the man  
 
 1. (Synthetic Stones) 
Artificial product similar 
to its natural counterpart 
and has its same basic 
particulars, chemical 
composition and 
structure and its physical 
particulars.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  16 
 polish and refine it 
using the normal 
known methods.  
 Treated 
Gemstone 
(Treated 
Gemstones)  Natural stone was 
treated to change 
its appearance 
and/or so lidity, 
and/or colour 
and/or fitness.   
 
 
Products produced 
in part or whole by 
the man  2. Imitated or falsified 
gemstone s 
(Imitations of Gemstones)  
A product similar to the 
gemstone in appearance 
but different in the 
chemical structure, physical 
particul ars or the 
composition of such 
gemstone.  
 
1.2 Artificial products 
which are crystallized  
 Artificially crystallized 
products or artificial stones 
crystallized products which 
do not have a natural 
counterpart similar to a 
gemstone.  
 
2.2 Artificial products 
whi ch are not crystallized  
(Artificial products which 
are not crystallized)  
Artificial products which 
are not crystallized and Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  17 
 imitate the gemstones and 
natural materials in 
appearance, such as glass, 
crystal and plastic.  
    3.2 Artificially 
produced 
composite 
stones  
(Artificially produced 
composite stones)  
Products composite of two 
or more layers, which were 
previously separate, and 
collected by a link or 
synthetic methods; they 
may have natural and/or 
synthetic components;  
however, they shall have at 
least o ne gemstone.  
 
4.2 Reconstructed 
stones  
(Reconstructed stones)  
Artificial products that are 
manufactured by melting 
(without crystallizing later) 
natural materials to 
compose a solid unit.  
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  18 
 Annex N o (3) 
Official Approved Stamp:  
The gold, silver and platinum processed items shall be stamped as follows:  
a. The carat mark: it is a corners -carved rectangle including one of the legal carats of 
the gold, silver and platinum items in the following dimensions:  
1) Gold items with size of 0.5 mm, 1 mm, 1.5 mm.  
2) Silver items  with size of 0.5 mm, 1 mm, 1.5 mm.  
3) Platinum items with size of 0.5 mm, 1 mm, 1.5 mm.  
b. The patch mark: it is a corners -carved rectangle, containing a drawing which 
characterises the metal made up therefrom with dimensions of 0.5 mm, 1 mm and 
1.5 mm, as foll ows:  
1) The drawing of (falcon) for the gold artefacts .  
2) The drawing of (castle) for the silver artefacts . 
3) The drawing of (palm) for the platinum artefacts . 
4) The figure characterising the stamping agency: the symbol of the stamping 
agency which is a corners -carved rectangle with proper dimensions to 
allow for reading it.  
5) The 24 carat items shall be stamped with the number of portions for gold.  
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  19 
 Annex N o (4) 
The Data of the Label for Using Inside the State  
 
The processed items (jewellery pieces) or the precio us stones that are sold, offered for 
sale or possessed with intent of sale.  
Contents of the identification card of 
the jewellery (the precious inlaid 
stones in the pieces of the precious 
metals)  Contents of the identification card of the 
precious stones  
2. The name and classification of the 
stone  2. The name and classification of the 
stone  
3. The weight of the stone in carat.  3. The weight of the stone in carat.  
4.  Determination of the diamond 
colour and fitness if its weight is no 
less than (0.5) carat.  4. Determinatio n of the stone colour, 
fitness, weight and pieces contained 
therein if is of the diamond and its 
weight is of no less than (0.30) carat.  
5.  Determination whether or not the 
stone is treated if the weight of the 
Rubies, the emerald or the sapphire 
therein is  no less than (2) carats.  5. Determination whether or not the 
stone is treated if it is of (the Rubies, 
the emerald or the sapphire) and its 
weight is of no less than (1) carats.  
6. Determination whether the pearls is 
natural or cultured; if cultured and its 
diameter is no less than (10.0) mm, it 
shall be indicated whether it was 
cultured in fresh or salt water.  6. Determination whether the pearls is 
natural or cultured if its diameter is 
no less than (3) mm, if it is cultured, it 
shall be indicated whether it wa s 
cultured in fresh or salt water.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  20 
 Annex No  (5) 
The Data of the Label of the Export  
For the processed items (jewellery pieces) or the precious stones prepared for 
exportation  
Contents of the identification card of the 
jewellery (the precious inlaid sto nes in a 
piece of the precious metals)  Contents of the identification card of the 
precious stones  
1. Name of Exporter.  1. Name of Exporter.  
2. Destination of Export.  2. Destination of Export.  
3. Metal Type.  3. Stone Type.  
4. Description.  4. Description.  
5. Weight.  5. Weight.  
6. No. 6. No. 
 
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  21 
 Annex No  (6) 
Approved Standard Specifications  
The methods of testing and examination to determine the fitness of the precious metal 
in the gold alloys:  
Serial  Specification 
Number  Specification Title in 
Arabic  Specification Titl e 
in English  
1. UAE.S ISO 8654  Colours of gold alloys – 
Definition, range of colours 
and designation  Colours of gold 
alloys – Definition, 
range of colours and 
designation  
2. UAE. S ISO 9202  Jewellery -Fineness of 
precious metal alloys  Jewellery -Fineness 
of precious metal 
alloys  
3. UAE. S ISO 10713  Jewellery - Gold Alloy 
Coatings  Jewellery Gold Alloy 
Coatings  
4. UAE.S GSO ISO 
11426  Jewellery - Determination of 
gold in gold jewellery alloys 
– Cupellation method (fire 
assay)  Jewellery - 
Determination of 
gold in gold 
jewellery alloys – 
Cupellation method 
(fire assay)  
5. UAE.S GSO ISO 
11427  Jewellery - Determination of 
Silver in silver jewellery 
alloys – volumetric 
(potentiometric) method 
using potassium bromide  Jewellery - 
Determination of 
Silver in silver 
jewel lery alloys – 
volumetric 
(potentiometric) 
method using 
potassium bromide  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  22 
 6. UAE.S GSO ISO 
11489  Determination of platinum in 
platinum jewellery alloys – 
Gravimetric determination 
by reduction with mercury (I) 
chloride  Determination of 
platinum in platinum  
jewellery alloys – 
Gravimetric 
determination by 
reduction with 
mercury (I) chloride  
7. UAE.S GSO ISO 
11494  Jewellery - Determination of 
platinum in platinum 
jewellery alloys – ICP-OES 
method using yttrium as 
internal standard element  Jewellery - 
Determinat ion of 
platinum in platinum 
jewellery alloys – 
ICP-OES method 
using yttrium as 
internal standard 
element  
8. UAE.S GSO ISO 
11456  Jewellery – Sampling of 
precious metal alloys for and 
in jewellery and associated 
products  Jewellery – Sampling 
of precious met al 
alloys for and in 
jewellery and 
associated products  
9. UAE.S ISO 15093  Jewellery - Determination of 
Precious metals in 999 0/00 
gold, platinum and 
palladium jewellery alloys – 
Difference method using 
ICP-OES  Jewellery - 
Determination of 
Precious metals i n 
999 0/00 gold, 
platinum and 
palladium jewellery 
alloys – Difference 
method using ICP -
OES  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  23 
 10. UAE.S ISO 15096  Jewellery - Determination of 
Silver in 999 0/00 silver 
jewellery alloys – Difference 
method using ICP -OES  Jewellery - 
Determination of 
Silver in 9 99 0/00 
silver jewellery 
alloys – Difference 
method using ICP -
OES  
11. UAE.S ISO 13756  Jewellery - Determination of 
Silver in Silver jewellery 
alloys – volumetric 
(potentiometric) method 
using sodium chloride or 
potassium chloride  Jewellery - 
Determination o f 
Silver in Silver 
jewellery alloys – 
volumetric 
(potentiometric) 
method using 
sodium chloride or 
potassium chloride  
12. 
 UAE.S GSO ISO 
11210  Determination of platinum in 
platinum jewellery alloys. 
Gravimetric method after 
precipitation of 
diammonium 
hexa chloroplatinate  Determination of 
platinum in platinum 
jewellery alloys. 
Gravimetric method 
after precipitation of 
diammonium 
hexachloroplatinate  
13. UAE.S GSO ISO 
11490  Determination of palladium 
in palladium jewellery alloys. 
Gravimetric method with 
dime thyl glyoxime  Determination of 
palladium in 
palladium jewellery 
alloys.  
Gravimetric method Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  24 
 with dimethyl 
glyoxime  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  25 
 Annex No  (7) 
 
Data of the certificate issued by the agency granting the precious stones, specified in 
Annex No. (2) attached to this Res olution.  
 
1. Data of the polished diamond:  
− Type: natural or artificial.  
− Photo is an outline for the stone shape specifying the impurities type and 
location.  
− Fitness rank.  
− Weight by carat.  
− Pieces.  
− Shape  
− Stone size  
− Specify whether or not the stone is treated.   
− In case of the treated stone, specify the treatment type and rank.  
− Colour.  
2. Data of the pearls:  
− Type (natural or cultured).  
− Photo . 
− Weight.  
− Size.  
− Shape  
− Pieces.  
− Place of the cultured pearls.  
− Colour.  
− Treatment and its type.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  26 
 3. The data of the pearls, if  processed, it shall be accompanied by a label containing 
the above stated data.  
4. The data of the precious stones coloured):  
− The type of the common stone specified in Annex No. (1) on the list of the 
precious stones.  
− Photo (an outline specifying the impur ities type and location).  
− Colour.  
− Weight by carat.  
− Pieces.  
− Shape  
− Stone size  
− Specify whether the stone is treated and type and rank of treatment.  
  Cabinet Resolution of 20 18 Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 201 5 Controlling 
the Trade in and Stamping of Precious Stones and Metals  27 
 Annex N o (8) 
The Data of the Label of the Low-Carat Items  
Contents of the identification card of the 
item s processed by the low -carat 
precious metals specified in article (8) of 
this Resolution.  Contents of the identification card of 
the items processed by the low -carat 
metals and polished with the precious 
stones specified in article (8) of this 
Resolution.  
1. Metal Type.  1. Metal Type.  
2. The metal fitness  2. The metal fitness  
3. If the processed item is inlaid, specify 
the used metal.  3. If the processed item is inlaid, specify 
the used metal.  
7. Description.  
 4. Stone Type.  
8. Weight.  5. Description.  
 6. Weight.  
 
 
 
 
 