 
 
Federal Law by Decree No. (22) of 2020 Concerning the Distribution of Competencies and Powers 
between the Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA), and the securities and commodities licensed in 
the State  1 
  Federal Law by Decree No. (22) of 2020  
Concerning the Distribution of Competencies and Powers between the 
Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA), and the securities and 
commodities licensed in the State  
 
We, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan        President of the UAE,  
Having reviewed the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competencies of the Ministries and the Powers of the 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (4) of 2000 on the Emirates SCA and Market, as amended;  
− Federal Law  No. (2) of 2015 on Commercial Companies, as amended; and  
− Based on the proposal of the Minister of Economy, and the approval of the Cabinet;  
Have promulgated the following Decree:  
 
Article (1) 
The securities and commodities licensed in the State, each according to their competence, 
shall solely assume all the operational and executive powers and competencies established 
for the SCA, as mentioned in Federal Law No. (2) of 2015 concerning commerci al companies, 
and those contained in Federal Law No. (4) of 2000 concerning the UAE SCA and Market, and 
the regulations, rules and decisions issued in implementation thereof.  
  
Article (2) 
Without prejudice to  the text of Article 1 of this Law by Decree, the SCA shall have the 
authority to regulate, monitor, and supervise securities and commodities in the State.  
  
Article (3) 
For the purposes of implementing the provisions of this Law by Decree, the boards of d irectors 
of the SCA, and SCA managers, shall undertake the operational and executive competencies  
 
Federal Law by Decree No. (22) of 2020 Concerning the Distribution of Competencies and Powers 
between the Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA), and the securities and commodities licensed in 
the State  2 
  established for the board of directors of the SCA and the SCA CEO, as the case may be.  
  
Article (4) 
The SCA shall coordinate with the markets, each within th e limits of their competence, to 
transfer all regulations and data related to the market implementation of the competencies 
entrusted to it under the provisions of this Law by Decree.  
  
Article (5) 
The Cabinet or whomever it authorises may issue all necess ary decisions to implement the 
provisions of this Law by Decree, including specifying the operational and executive powers 
and competencies established for the SCA, and these decisions shall be published in the 
Official Gazette.  
  
 
Article (6) 
The Cabinet o r whomever it authorises, upon the request of the concerned market, may form 
one or more committees, whose competence and powers shall be defined in the formation 
decision, to carry out the operational and executive competencies stipulated in Articles One 
and Five of this Law by Decree, until all logistical arrangements at the markets are completed 
to carry out these competencies. The decision to form the Committee, their competence and 
powers shall be published in the Official Gazette.  
  
 
Article (7) 
Any te xt or provision contained in any other legislation that violates or contradicts the 
provisions of this Law by Decree shall be repealed.  
  
 
 
  
 
Federal Law by Decree No. (22) of 2020 Concerning the Distribution of Competencies and Powers 
between the Securities and Commodities Authority (SCA), and the securities and commodities licensed in 
the State  3 
   
Article (8) 
This Law by Decree shall be published in th e Official Gazette and shall be enforced as of the 
day following the date of its publication.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the UAE  
 
 
 
Issued by Us at the Presidency Palace in Abu Dhabi:  
Date: 10 Safar 1442 H  
Corresponding to: September 27, 2020  