 
Federal Law of 1992 concerning the production, import and handling seeds and kernels  1 
 Federal Law No. ( 42) of 1992  
concerning the production, import and handling seeds and kernels  
 
We, Zayed Bin Sultan AL Nahyan                     President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Pursuant to the provisions of the interim constitution constitution.  
− And the Federal Law number (1) of the year 1972 on the terms of reference of the 
Ministries and powers vested upon the Ministers and the laws issued in amendment 
thereto,  
− And the Federal Law number (2) of the year 1974 on regulation the importation of 
seedlings and agricultural seeds as well as the laws issued in amendment thereto,  
− And the Federal Law number (4) of the year 1979 on the control of Deception and Fraud in the commercial transactions.  
− And the Federal Law number (5) of the year 1979 on the Agricultural Quarantine and the Laws issued in amendment thereto,  
− And the Federal Law number (3) of the year 1987 in the issuance of the penal Law.  
− And with regard to t he submission of the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries as 
approved by the cabinet and endorsed by the Supreme Council.  
Do hereby promulgate the following Law:  
  
Article (1)  
The following words and terms shall have the meaning hereby assigned to them unless the 
context otherwise requires:  
State  : United Arab Emirates.  
Ministry  : Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.   
Federal Law of 1992 concerning the production, import and handling seeds and kernels  2 
  
Competent 
Department  : Shall mean the Agricultural Affairs Sector at the Ministry or any 
structural unit stemming therefrom . 
Competent 
Authority  : The authority concerned entrusted with regulating the production, import, and trade of seeds and kernels in each Emirate of the United 
Arab Emirates.  
See ds and 
Kernels  : The plant part or parts which are used in the reproduction of various agricultural crops, by all commonly known types of reproduction.  
Reproduction 
Areas  : The regions determined for the reproduction of seeds and kernels.  
Contract  : The entity that is contracted with to produce seeds and kernels.  
Trading  : Offer to sell, selling, storing, or transporting by any means of 
transportation.  
 
Article (2)  
The competent Department shall coordinate with the competent Authority to recommen d 
the approved types and varieties of agricultural seeds and tubers, their specifications, 
methods used for their propagation production, importation, circulation, preparation, usage 
and their advertising.  
The competent Department together with the competent authority shall specifically 
determine the following:  
1. The conditions and technical contracting measure of propagation and production of agricultural seeds and tubers locally according to their types and varieties.  
2. Areas of cultivation of agricultu ral seeds and tubers and their established conditions.   
Federal Law of 1992 concerning the production, import and handling seeds and kernels  3 
 3. Specifications of packs of agricultural seeds and tubers, their stickers and the containing 
data.  
4. Conditions and measures of examining of agricultural seeds and reporting their validity, 
quality as well as the process of objection against the results of examinations and tests 
and the determination therein.  
5. Specifications and conditions of garbling and preparing stations of seeds and tubers for 
circulation.  
6. Precautionary measures shall be followed in regard to violated seeds and tubers to the 
provisions of this Law and the decisions implemented thereto.  
  
Article (3)  
It shall not be permissible to propagate, import or circulate seeds and tubers as stated in 
article (2) of the present Law unles s obtaining prior approval from the competent authority 
with the exception:  
1. Agricultural seeds and tubers imported by universities and research centers for the 
purpose of scientific and research on condition that these parties shall carry out safety 
mea sures to avoid the circulation of these seeds and tubers in the country.  
2. Agricultural seeds and tubers imported for re -export purpose on condition that they 
shall not cross the inlets of the country and they may be transferred from one terminal to anoth er for re exportation after taking the necessary precautions in coordination 
between the customs authorities and the agricultural quarantine Department.  
  
Article (4)  
The Minister in accordance with the recommendation of the competent Department and in 
coordination with the competent authority may prohibit the propagation, production,  
Federal Law of 1992 concerning the production, import and handling seeds and kernels  4 
 exportation, importation or circulation of any type or variety of seeds and tubers 
permanently or temporarily as deem necessary to the public inserts.  
  
Article (5)  
Imported seeds and tubers or prepared for exportation shall be submit to the agricultural 
quarantine measures of inspection to make sure that they are free from diseases and pests 
and fulfill the specifications.  
  
Article (6)  
The Persons who are working in this coun try, and whose activities or part thereof fall under 
the provisions of this law, shall adapt their statuses with its provisions and decisions during a period of six months from the date of its enforcement, otherwise they shall be liable for 
penalties as st ated thereof.  
  
Article (7)  
The employees assigned to follow up the implementation of the provisions of this law, the 
decisions issued in execution thereof, and who have been selected by a decision from the 
minister of justice in agreement with the ministe r of agriculture and fisheries and the 
competent authority shall be deemed to be as judicial detection inspectors.  
They are entitled to enter the places, which their activities are included within the provisions 
of this law, except the places allocated for  residency, to ensure implementing its provisions 
and the decisions issued in execution thereof, and control of the violations; and the local 
authorities shall provide the necessary Facilities for those inspectors to carry out their mission.  
   
Federal Law of 1992 concerning the production, import and handling seeds and kernels  5 
 Article (8)  
Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of this Law shall be sentenced upon conviction 
to a fine of Dirham not less than five thousand (5000) dirham and shall not exceed fifty 
thousand dirham (50,000) in addition to confiscate the material in question.  
  
Article (9)  
The due fees shall be determined according to the provisions of this Law through a decision by the cabinet.  
  
Article (10)  
The Minister shall issue the By -Law and decisions necessary for the implementation of the 
provisions of this Law.  
  
Article (11)  
The Law No. (2) of the year 1974 on regulation the importation of seedlings and agricultural seeds.  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Federal Law of 1992 concerning the production, import and handling seeds and kernels  6 
 Article (12)  
The present Law shall be published in the official Gazette and shall be enforced as from the 
date of its publishing.  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
Issued by us at the presidency place in Abu Dhabi  
Made on 1. Rabee Althani. 1413 Hijiri  
 
 