 
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  1 
 Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 202 2 
Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  
 
We Mohamed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan           President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Having reviewed the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No.  (6) of 1978 On the Establishment of Federal Courts and Transfer of the 
Jurisdiction of Local Judicial Authorities in some Emirates to Them; as amended;  
− The Civil Code, promulgated by Federal Law No. (5) of 1985, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (23)  of 1991 Regulating the Legal profession, as amended;  
− The Law of Evidence in Civil and Commercial Transactions, promulgated by Federal Law 
No. (10)  of 1992, as amended;  
− The Civil Procedure Law, promulgated by Federal Law No. (11)  of 1992, as amended;  
− The Criminal Procedure Law, promulgated by Federal Law No. (35)  of 1992, as 
amended;  
− The Commercial Code, promulgated by Federal Law No. (18)  of 1993, as amend ed; 
− The Law establishing Conciliation and Mediation Centers for Civil and Commercial Disputes, promulgated by Federal Law No. (17)  of 2016, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (5)  of 2017 on the Use of Telecommunication in Criminal Proceedings;  
− Federal Law N o. (6) of 2018 on Arbitration;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (14)  of 2018 Concerning the Central Bank and Organization of 
Financial Activities and Institutions, as amended;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (20)  of 2018 on Anti -Money Laundering and Combating the 
financing of terrorism and of Illegal Organizations, as amended;  
− Federal law No. (10)  of 2019 Regulating the Judicial Relationship between the Federal 
and Local Judicial Authorities;  
− Federal law No. (6) of 2021 on the Mediation for Settlement of Civil and Com mercial 
Disputes;   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  2 
 − Federal Decree Law No. (31)  of 2021 Promulgating the Crimes and Penalties Law;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (32)  of 2021 on the Commercial Companies;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (46)  of 2021 on the Electronic Transactions and Trust Services;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (20)  of 2022 Regulating the Notary Profession;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (21)  of 2022 Regulating the Expertise Profession before the 
Judicial Bodies;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (32)  of 2022 on the Federal Judicial Authority;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (33)  of 2022 on the Federal Supreme Court; and  
− Based on the Minister of Justice's proposal, as approved by the Cabinet,  
Hereby promulgated this Decree Law:  
  
Part One  
Definitions, Objectives and Scope of Application  
Article (1) 
Definitions  
For the purpose of applying the provisions of this Decree Law, the following words and 
expressions shall bear the meanings assigned thereto respectively, unless the context 
requires otherwise:  
 The State  : The United Arab Emirates  
 The Ministry  : The Ministry of Justice  
 The Minister  : The Minister of Justice  
 Head of Local 
Judicial 
Authority  : The heads of local judicial bodies according to the legislation 
regulating their work.  
 The Committee  : The Lawyers and Legal Consultants Affairs Committee that is 
established pursuant to article (79)  hereof.  
 The Competent 
Department  : The Ministry's Lawyers and Legal Consultants Affairs 
Department   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  3 
  The Roll  : A paper or electronic document kept by the Competent 
Department f or recording the lawyers' data, and each of 
which shall have an independent roll according to the 
provisions of this Decree Law and its Executive Regulations.  
 The Register  : The pape r or electronic document kept by the Competent 
Department for recording the data of lawyers' assistants; i.e. 
legal researchers, legal consultants and representatives, 
according to the provisions of this Decree Law and its 
Executive Regulations.  
 The Lawy er  : The natural person whose name is recorded in the roll of 
practicing or non -practicing lawyers with the Ministry.  
 Legal 
Consultant  : The natural person whose name is recorded in the roll of legal 
consultants with the Ministry.  
 The profession  : The legal profession or legal consultation profession  
 The Code  : Regulations that set out a set of rules and controls that 
regulate the work of the lawyers and their assistants, as well 
as the professional ethics and conduct.  
 The Firm  : The law firm o r legal consultation firm duly licensed in the 
State, whether as a sole proprietorship or a professional 
company.  
 The Foreign 
Firm  : The branch of a foreign firm or company duly licensed in the 
State to engage in the legal profession and legal consultat ion 
and which satisfies the requirements set out in article (70)  
hereof.  
 Legal Fees  : The monetary consideration payable to the lawyer or legal 
consultant against performing the legal work assigned to him 
/ her by the client.  
 Retainer 
Agreement  : An agreement between the lawyer or legal consultant and the 
client, which sets out the agreed fees and payment method, as 
well as the type and nature of the duties assigned to the  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  4 
 lawyer or legal consultant  
  
Article (2) 
Objectives of this Decree Law  
This de cree law shall aim to:  
1. Regulate the legal profession and legal consultation profession.  
2. Develop the legal profession and legal consultation profession and upgrade the 
efficiency of its practitioners; and  
3. Promote the trust in those performing  the legal profession and legal consultation 
profession under the umbrella of specific professional, ethical and behavioral controls.  
  
Article (3) 
Scope of Application  
1. The professions of this Decree Law shall apply to all persons and entities practicing the 
legal profession and legal consultation profession in the State.  
2. The emirates having local judicial authorities may regulate the legal profession and legal consu ltation profession in accordance with their own local legislation.  
  
Part Two  
Practice of the Legal Profession  
Chapter One  
Independence and Controls of the Profession  
Article (4) 
The legal profession is an independent, liberal profession regulated by this Decree Law, and contributes to achieving justice, ensuring the rule of law and promoting the right to defense.  
  
Article (5) 
Lawyers are the professionals who engage in the legal profession for the sake of providing judicial assistance to the wishing persons. In the course of performing their profession the  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  5 
 lawyers shall have the rights and guarantees and shall be subject to the  duties imposed on 
them in accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law and its Executive Regulations 
and the Code.  
  
Article (6) 
1. Only lawyers duly licensed in the State shall practice the legal profession or carry out any activities  related thereto or use the title "lawyer" upon performing any other relevant 
work. The legal profession's activities shall include, without limitation, the following 
work:  
a. Appearing on behalf of, and representing, the persons concerned before the court s, 
the public prosecution, the committees of a judicial mandate, the investigation 
bodies and the police, defending such persons in relation to the legal proceedings 
instituted by or again them, and carry out relevant judicial work;  
b. Giving legal opinion and advice;  
c. Drafting the contracts and relevant legal procedures; and  
d. Representing the parties in respect of any non- judicial legal work under a limited 
power of attorney.  
The courts, the public prosecution and government entities shall only admit t he lawyer's 
legal representation if his / her name is recorded in the Roll of Practicing Lawyers kept with 
the Ministry.  
  
Article (7) 
Without prejudice to article (9) hereof, only the lawyers admitted for pleading befo re the 
Federal Supreme Court shall be allowed to appear before such a court on behalf of the 
parties to the case and to file motions, appeals and statements of claim.  
  
Article (8) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of article (6)  hereof:  
1. The persons conc erned may authorize their spouses, in -laws or blood relatives up to the 
fourth degree to appear on their behalf before the courts and judicial committees.   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  6 
 2. An attorney -in-fact appointed under a limited power of attorney may represent the legal 
represen tative of the private legal person in relation to any legal proceedings, whether 
before the Case Management Office or the Court, as the case may be. In which case, the 
attorney -in-fact shall satisfy the following requirements:  
a. To be a national citizen h aving full legal capacity;  
b. To be holding a university degree in law or in Sharia and law from a university or 
college recognized in th e State or the equivalent certificate thereof. In addition, the 
Executive Regulations hereof shall set out the controls and requirements of the equivalent certificates;  
c. To be an employee of the private legal person; and  
d. To have its name recorded in t he Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers.  
  
Article (9) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles (6)  and (7) hereof:  
1. The State Lawsuits Department of the Ministry shall represent the ministries, government departments, and federal public bodies and institu tions in relation to filing 
the motions, statements of claim, appeals and statements of defense, and, in general, performing all acts and activities relating to the handling of legal proceedings and 
appeals before the courts of all jurisdictions, the arbit ral tribunals in the State and any 
other entity having a judicial mandate under this Decree Law, whether the ministries, 
government departments, and federal public bodies and institutions are acting as 
Plaintiff or Defendant, both within and outside of the  State.  
2. Without prejudice to article (7) hereof, such entities may be represented by the 
following persons in respect of performing the activities referred to in Clause (1)  of this 
Article:  
a. The legal consultants who are employed by such entities, p rovided that their names 
are recorded in the Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers; and  
b. The law firms in relation to certain important legal proceedings, subject to prior approval of the Minister.  
3. The local gov ernment entities and State -owned companies may be represented by either  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  7 
 the Ministry's State Lawsuits Department for carrying out the activities referred to in 
Clause (1) of this Article, or the legal consultants and experts who are national citizens 
employed by such entities, provided that their names are recorded in the Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers. Such entities may also be represented by lawyers to carry out 
the said activities, provided that the representing lawyers are admitted for pleading 
before t he Court handling the underlying legal proceeding.  
  
Article (10)  
1. A non -national lawyer may be licensed to practice the legal profession in the State 
subject to satisfying both the requirements set forth in Articles (13.2) , (13.3) , (13.4), 
(13.6), (13.7 ), (13.8) , (13.9)  and (13.10) hereof, and the following requirements:  
a. The non -national lawyer must have practiced the legal profession for at least fifteen 
(15) years, and is still registered as a practicing lawyer in the State wherein the legal 
profession has been practiced by him;  
b. The non -national lawyer must be a partner of a foreign law firm that is both duly 
licensed in the State and satisfying the requirements set out in article (70)  hereof, and 
according to the conditions set out in the Exe cutive Regulations hereof, and must be 
practicing the legal profession only through such a firm;  
c. The non -national lawyer shall carry out the legal representation only in relation to the 
legal proceedings handled by the specialized circuits to be determined based on a 
decision of the Head of the Federal Judicial Council or the Heads of Local Judicial 
Bodies, as the case may be, and excluding the criminal proceedings, administrative proceedings, family proceedings and personal status proceedings of Muslims ; and  
d. The other requirements set out in the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
2. During, and on the occasion of, practicing the legal profession, the non -national lawyer 
shall be subject to all the rights, obligations and disciplinary measures  that are applicable 
to the national lawyers and described herein.  
3. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall regulate the procedures and 
controls of licensing and delicensing the non- national lawyers to practice the legal 
professi on, as well as the licensing term and renewal mechanism.   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  8 
 Chapter Two  
Listing in Rolls of Lawyers  
Article (11)  
Roll of lawyers shall be created by the Ministry as follows:  
1. The Roll of Practicing Lawyers;  
2. The Roll of Non- Practicing Lawyers; and  
3. The Roll of Trainee Lawyers.  
  
Section One  
Listing in Rolls of Practicing Lawyers  
Article (12)  
1. The Rolls of Lawyers shall be divided into:  
a. The Roll of Practicing Lawyers admitted before the Courts of First Instance and 
Appeal; and  
b. The Roll of Practicing Lawyers admitted before the Federal Supreme Court.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall set out the conditions and procedures of moving the lawyer's name from the Roll of Practicing Lawyers admitted 
before the Cour ts of First Instance and Appeal to the Roll of Practicing Lawyers admitted 
before the Federal Supreme Court.  
  
Article (13)  
Any lawyer whose name is listed in the Roll of Practicing Lawyers shall satisfy the following 
requirements:  
1. To be a national citizen;  
2. To be at least twenty -one (21)  calendar years of age;  
3. To be of full legal capacity and good reputation and conduct, and has neither been 
convicted by a court on the grounds of any felony or misdemeanor involving moral 
turpitude or breach of trust, nor been convicted on disciplinary grounds in relation to 
any of such crimes, even if rehabilitated;   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  9 
 4. To be holding a university degree in law or in Sharia and law or the equivalent certificate 
thereof from a university or c ollege recognized in the State;  
5. To successfully pass the training period determined and regulated by the Executive Regulations hereof;  
6. To successfully pass the written exams and interview before a committee to be formed 
by a resolution of the Min ister;  
7. To successfully pass the medical examination in order to verify his eligibility to practice 
the legal profession, as described in the Executive Regulations hereof;  
8. To complete the necessary procedures and approval of listing not later than three (3) 
months following the date of being notified of the listing application approval; 
otherwise, his application shall be invalidated;  
9. To submit a valid professional liab ility insurance policy, to be issued by an insurer duly 
licensed to operate in the State, unless the lawyer's liability is covered by the insurance 
policy of the law firm at which the lawyer works, according to the controls to be determined by the Minister ; and  
10. To pay the prescribed fees.  
  
Article (14)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles (13.5) and (13.6) hereof, any person who has 
already occupied a judicial or public prosecution position or any legal position at the legal 
departments of the ministries or government bodies, or performed any job equivalent to the 
profession for a period of not less than three (3)  years, may have his / her name listed in the 
Roll of Practicing Lawyers admitted before the Courts of First Instance and Appeal or the 
Federal Supreme Court, as regulated by the Executive Regulations hereof.  
  
Article (15)  
1. Listing in the Roll of Practicing Lawyers shall be valid for three (3)  years renewable for a 
similar period (s) at the request of the  person concerned.  
2. Listing in the Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers shall be valid for five (5)  years.  
3. The Executive Regulations hereof shall determine the listing renewal conditions and  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  10 
 controls.  
  
Article (16)  
1. The lawyer shall only practice t he legal profession after taking the following legal oath: " I 
swear by Allah, the Almighty Lord, that I shall perform my duties honestly and 
honorably, respect the laws of the State, and preserve the profession and abide by 
its ethics and core values".  
2. The lawyer admitted before the Federal Supreme Court shall take the oath before any 
circuit of the Court, while the lawyer admitted before the other courts shall take the oath 
before a circuit of the Courts of Appeal.  
3. The lawyer's taking of the oath  shall be record in a report a copy of which shall be kept in 
his / her personal file at the competent department.  
  
Article (17)  
The Executive Regulations hereof shall set out the conditions and procedures of moving the 
listing details from the Roll of No n-Practicing Lawyers to the Roll of Practicing Lawyers or 
re-listing after removal of listing.  
  
Section Two  
Listing in the Rolls of Trainee Lawyers  
Article (18)  
The trainer shall have his / her name listed in the Roll of Trainee Lawyers subject to 
satisfy ing the requirements set out in the Articles (13.1), (13.2), (13.3)  and (13.4) hereof.  
  
Article (19)  
1. The application for moving the listing details of the trainee lawyer to the Roll of 
Practicing Lawyers or to the Roll of Non- Practicing Lawyers shall be admitted within one 
year of the date of successfully passing the training the training period and takin g the 
legal oath ser forth in article (16)  hereof.   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  11 
 2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall set out the training conditions and 
procedures.  
  
Article (20)  
1. Each lawyer admitted for pleading before the Federal Supreme Court shall admit at  least 
one trainee lawyer at his / her law firm, and shall pay to the same a monthly 
remuneration the minimum value of which is to be determined by the Committee. 
However, the Committee may relieve the lawyer of admitting any trainee lawyer at his / her law firm if the surrounding circumstances so justify.  
2. The Trainee Lawyer shall, during his / her practical training period, appear and plead before the Courts of First Instance and Appeal on behalf, and under the supervision, of the employer lawyer, acc ording to the conditions to be determined by the Executive 
Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (21)  
No lawyer, whose name is listed in the Rolls of Practicing Lawyers, shall be permitted to assume any of the following positions:  
1. Presidency or membership of the Cabinet;  
2. Presidency of the Federal National Council;  
3. The public office, and the Committee may, however, as determined by the Executive 
Regulations of this Decree Law, grant an exemption to the faculty members of th e law or 
Sharia and law at any university or faculty who are both nationals of the State and holder of PhD degree;  
4. The private job, unless the same is conforming to Articles (8.2) and (23) of this Decree 
Law.  
If the lawyer occupies any of such positions in violation of the provision of this Article, any 
disciplinary penalties shall be imposed on him / her as determined by article (86) of this 
Decree Law.  
  
  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  12 
 Section Three  
Listing in the Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers  
Article (22)  
1. The following p ersons shall have their names listed in Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers:  
a. The Practicing Lawyer wishing to have his / her names moved to the Roll of 
Non -Practicing Lawyers for whatever reasons; and  
b. The Trainee Lawyer who has successfully completed his / her training period and 
taken the legal oath provided for in article (16) of this Decree Law, and is wishing to 
have his / her name moved to the Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers.  
2. The lawyer, who has any reason preventing him / her from practicing the legal profession, may submit an application to the Committee, within thirty (30 ) days of the 
occurrence date of the underlying reason, to have his / her name moved to the Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers; otherwise, he / she shall be held accountable on disc iplinary 
grounds. When such a reason ceases to exist, he / she may request that his / her name be 
re-listed in the Roll of Practicing Lawyers.  
3. If the lawyer, whose name is listed in the Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers prior to the 
entry into force of the provisions hereof, is wishing to have his / her name moved to the Roll of Non -Practicing, provided that he / she is not subject to the provisions of Article 
(14)  hereof, and his name has neve r been listed in the Roll of Practicing, he / she shall be 
subject to the provisions of Articles (13.6) and (13.8)  of this Decree Law.  
4. Lawyers, whose names are listed in the Rolls of Practicing Lawyers and Non -Practicing 
Lawyers, shall have their affairs adjusted within one year following the date of entry into 
force of the provisions of this Decree Law.  
5. The persons, who satisfy the requirements set forth in article (13)  of this Decree Law, 
may have their names listed in the Rolls of Non- Practicin g Lawyers, as long as they work 
for government entities or state -owned companies. The Executive Regulations of this 
Decree Law shall determine the conditions and procedures for listing and the controls 
for its renewal.  
  
  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  13 
 Article (23)  
1. Subject to the p rovisions of Articles (6.2)  and (7) of this Decree Law, the Lawyers, whose 
names are listed in the Roll of Non -Practicing Lawyers, may practice the professional 
duties described in article (6 ) of this Decree Law, through legal departments of the 
private le gal persons licensed in the State.  
2. Lawyers working at such departments shall have their names listed in a special register 
kept with the competent department, and shall only be allowed to practice the profession after having their  names listed in the Roll. The Executive Regulations of this 
Decree Law shall determine the procedures, terms and conditions for listing their names 
in, and removing their names from, the said Roll.  
3. Lawyers working at such departments shall only pract ice the legal profession for the 
benefit of their employers, and violating this prohibition shall be a ground for removing 
their names from the Roll. In addition, they may only appear before the criminal courts 
in respect of the civil claims relating to th e legal proceedings to which their employers 
are a party, as well as the legal proceedings instituted against the managers or employees of their employers by virtue of their positions.  
4. The prohibition provided for in Clause (3) of this Article shall n ot apply to the legal 
proceedings involving them and their spouses and relatives up to the fourth degree, in respect of matters other than the judicial matters relating to their employers.  
  
Section Four  
Removing Lawyers' Names from the Rolls  
Article (24)  
Every Lawyer deregistered under a decision of the Committee shall have his / her name 
removed from the Rolls of Lawyers.  
  
  
 
  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  14 
 Part Three  
Lawyers' Rights and Duties and Lawyer -Client Relationship  
Chapter One  
Rights of Lawyers  
Article (25)  
While carrying out the duties of his profession, the Lawyer shall be treated with as much 
respect as due for the profession.  
 
Article (26)  
The Lawyer shall have the full freedom to accept or reject legal representation in respect of any specific case based on his own c hoice, and may adopt the methods he / she considers 
successful in accordance with the professional standards while defending the rights of his / her clients. In addition, the lawyer shall not be held liable for the contents of his / her oral 
pleadings or w ritten submissions as required for the right of defense within the scope of the 
law and professional ethics.  
  
Article (27)  
Subject to the provisions of laws regulating civil and criminal procedure, the Lawyer shall 
have the right to:  
1. Review the cases  and judicial papers and obtain any data relevant to the cases managed 
by him / her;  
2. Attend at the court hearings and investigation sessions with his / her client in accordance 
with the laws regulating civil and criminal procedure; and  
3. Visit his / her client who is imprisoned at the public prisons and to meet with his / her 
client in private at a decent place within the prison.  
  
Article (28)  
In no event may the Lawyer be questioned, nor may his / her office be searched for any matters i n relation to the performance of his / her profession, without prior permission from  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  15 
 the Public Prosecution and an order of at least the Advocate General, in addition, the person 
managing the investigation with the lawyer shall have the rank of at least a director of 
prosecution.  
  
Article (29)  
No attachment may be imposed on the office firm of the Lawyer or the foreign firm or the assets of such firms that are necessary for practicing the profession.  
  
Chapter Two  
Duties and Prohibitions of Lawyers  
Article (30)  
1. The Lawyer shall attend in person in respect of the case assigned to him / her.  
2. The Lawyer may, in writing, authorize any other Lawyer for appearance, pleading or taking any other litigation procedures on his / he behalf.  
3. If the  client stipulates under the power of attorney that the lawyer must appear in person 
in respect of the cases assigned to him / her, the Lawyer shall comply with such a 
requirement and may only authorize any third party to act on his / her behalf only when 
necessary.  
  
Article (31)  
The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall determine the controls for 
authorizations, and disciplinary measures shall be imposed against any lawyer who authorizes any other lawyer to appear on his / her behalf in violatio n of such relevant 
controls.  
  
Article (32)  
1. Before accepting the legal representation, the Lawyer shall keep his / her client informed 
of any circumstance that may potentially conflict with his / her interests; otherwise, he 
shall refuse such representation.   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  16 
 2. The Lawyer shall keep his / her client informed of the stages and progress of the relevant 
case, shall, in a timely manner, inform his / her client of the decisions and judgments 
issued in respect t hereof, shall provide his / her client with the necessary advice and 
consultation with regard to the case and challenging the judgment, and shall draw his / 
her client's attention to the dates of appealing against the judgments and decisions.  
  
Article (33) 
While appearing before the courts, the Lawyer shall wear the court dress specified by the Ministry.  
 
Article (34)  
1. If the court appoints a lawyer to defend an accused in accordance with the provisions of 
the Criminal Procedure Law, the Lawyer so appo inted shall appear and defend the 
accused in all trial hearings in accordance with the controls set forth in article ( 32) of this 
Decree Law.  
2. When adjudicating on a case in respect of which a lawyer is appointed, the court shall 
determine the latter's  fees, and its decision in this regard shall be conclusive. The 
Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall determine the controls for determining 
the fees of Lawyers appointed to handle criminal proceedings and the payment 
mechanism thereof.  
  
Article (35)  
1. The Lawyer appointed in accordance with article (34)  of this Decree Law shall carry out 
the duties assigned to him / her, and may only step down for any reasons admitted by 
the court.  
2. The court shall take disciplinary measures an y Lawyer who either refuses to abide by the 
appointment decision without a lawful reason or excuse or fails to properly perform his / her professional duties.  
  
  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  17 
 Article (36)  
1. The Lawyer shall submit to the court his / her duly attested power of attorn ey at the first 
hearing he attends on behalf of his / her client, unless the court approves the submission 
of the same at the following hearing.  
2. If the power of attorney is of a limited nature, it shall be kept in the case file, and if the 
same is of a general nature, only its number, date, and issuing authority shall be recorded 
in the transcript of the hearing and a copy thereof shall be kept in the case file.  
3. If the client appears alongside the lawy er in the criminal case, the judge shall record the 
same in the transcript of the hearing, and such appearance shall be valid in lieu of the 
power of attorney.  
  
Article (37)  
1. When the legal representation is completed, the Lawyer shall return to his /  her client the 
power of attorney together with the original documents and paperwork belonging to the 
client if requested by the latter.  
2. If the Lawyer has not received his professional fees, he may obtain, at the expense of his / her client, photocopies of all paperwork that could be used as a ground for claiming his 
/ her professional fees.  
3. The obligation provided for in Clause (1 ) of this Article shall not include the delivery to 
the client of the draft paperwork issued by the client in respect of the case, the letters received by the lawyer from the client, or the documents relating to the activities performed by the lawyer on his / her client's behalf, as long as the lawyer has not 
received his / her professional fees for any such activities.  
4. The client's right to request that the Lawyer deliver back to him / her the documents and paperwork, which were initially handed over to the lawyer, shall lapse either in the event 
that the client fails to pay full professional fees of the lawyer or after the passage of five (5) years following the date of termination of their relationship, unless otherwise agreed 
between them.  
  
  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  18 
 Article (38)  
1. If the Lawyer wishes to step down or to have his / her legal representation for the client 
terminated, he / she shall notify his / her client or the latter's representative either by 
registered post with acknowledgment due or via e -mail, as the case may be . In addition, 
the lawyer shall continue to handle the case procedures for not more than one month 
following the date of sending the aforementioned notice, whenever the same is 
necessary to defend the interests of the client or its representative, unless t he client or 
the court notifies the lawyer that the termination is accepted.  
2. If the Lawyer steps down or requests the termination of his / her legal representation for 
the client when the case is being processed, he / she shall deliver to his / her client the 
power of attorney, the original documents and paperwork and fees paid upfront, unless 
otherwise agreed.  
3. In all cases, the lawyer shall not be allowed to step down if the case is set for 
adjudication, without the approval of the court hearing the underlying case.  
  
Article (39)  
1. The Lawyer may not engage in any activity that goes against the dignity or norms of the 
legal profession, shall perform his / her duties honorably and honestly, and shall abide 
by the ethics and professional conduct of the legal profession, including, in p articular, 
those provided for in this Decree Law and its Executive Regulations and the Code.  
2. Upon dealing with members of the judicial authority, the Lawyer shall act in a decent 
manner that observes the dignity and standing of the judicial authority,  and shall avoid 
anything that may preclude the adjudication on cases or disturb the rule of law.  
  
Article (40)  
The Lawyer shall neither accept, nor continue to perform, legal representation with respect 
to a case or legal procedure before any judge or pu blic prosecution member with whom the 
lawyer knowingly has any relationship by marriage or blood up the fourth degree, even if 
the adverse party of his / her client accepts the same.  
   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  19 
 Article (41)  
Any person, who had occupied a public or private job and left the same, and is currently 
practicing the legal profession, shall not accept the legal representation, whether by himself 
/ herself or through any lawyer acting on his / her behalf, in respect o f any case against his / 
her former employer, within the year following the date of leaving his / her job, unless the 
merits of the underlying case are relating to anything falling under his / her responsibility or 
in respect of which he had performed any action with the former employer. In the latter 
case, the lawyer shall never accept the legal representation whether by himself / herself or through any lawyer acting on his / her behalf.  
  
Article (42)  
1. The Lawyer shall be prohibited from engaging in b usiness activities.  
2. The Lawyer may own and invest in financial and real estate assets.  
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of Clause (1 ) of this Article, the Lawyer may engage in 
the business activities specified by the Executive Regulations of this D ecree Law.  
4. The Lawyer may be a founder, shareholder or partner of any company in respect of 
which his / her liability is limited to the capital contribution provided by him / her.  
  
Article (43)  
The Lawyer may not accept the  legal representation in respect of any legal proceeding 
against any person or entity that had previously consulted him / her and allowed him / her 
to get access to its documents and aspects of defense.  
  
Article (44)  
The Lawyer shall refrain from giving s tatements about the facts or information that comes to 
his / her knowledge ex officio , unless the owner of such information accepts the same.  
  
Article (45)  
1. The Lawyer shall be prohibited from:   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  20 
 a. Disclosing any secret ent rusted to him / her, whether orally, in writing or via e -mail, 
means of modern technology or any other means of communication, or which comes 
to his / her knowledge ex officio , unless the disclosure of the same would prevent the 
commission of an offense af fecting a person's life or safety or would cause serious 
damage to a person's property, or unless the disclosure of the same is an obligatory 
duty under the laws in force in the State;  
b. Revealing the personal matters that offend or spoil the reputation, honor or dignity of 
the adverse parties, attorneys or witnesses, unless the same is necessary to defend the 
interests of his / her client;  
c. Disclosing any information about the cases assigned to him / her or any secret 
entrusted to him / her;  
d. Abusing the right to litigation, including prolongation of the proceedings;  
e. Deceiving or misleading his / her client in any way;  
f. Providing any assistance, even in the form of advice, to his / her client's adverse party 
in respect of the same dispute in quest ion or any dispute thereto related, even after 
the legal representation for such a client ends;  
g. Accepting the legal representation in respect of any legal proceeding that had already 
been handled by him / her or which falls within the scope of his / her  area of 
competence for the jobs covered by the provisions of article (14) hereof; or  
h. Promoting, or attempting to promote, himself / herself in any manner that goes 
against the ethics of the profession, by any means of promotion or enticement by 
interme diaries. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall determine the 
controls and means of promotion.  
2. Whoever violates the provisions of Clause (1) of this Article shall be subject to the 
disciplinary measures, without prejudice to any other penalties set forth in this Decree 
Law and the laws in force in the State.  
  
 
   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  21 
 Chapter Three  
Legal fees  
Article (46)  
1. The  Lawyer shall have the right to receive legal fees for the professional activities he/she 
performs within the limits of his / her power of attorney, and may recover the expenses 
he/she incurs as required for handling the cases or duties assigned to him / h er. 
2. The retainer agreement shall be executed in writing by any means prior to the performance of the agreed upon work, and the legal fee shall become due according to such an agreement.  
  
Article (47)  
The following aspects shall be taken into account upon determining the effort and estimating the legal fees due:  
1. The type and nature of the work assigned to the Lawyer, the estimated effort and the skills required to perform the same;  
2. The expected time required by the lawyer to com plete the work;  
3. The importance of the case or the interests involved in the dispute;  
4. The lawyer's experience, standing, seniority, degree of registration, and the reputation and prestige of his / her law firm; and  
5. Expenses of the lawyer's fi rm for gathering the information, and other costs and 
encumbrances.  
  
Article (48)  
Legal fees may be agreed upon in advance depending on the type, nature or circumstances of the work assigned to the Lawyer, or according to the hourly rate system adopted by the 
firm for the handling and completion of the underlying work.  
  
Article (49)  
1. The retainer agreement shall set out the details of the work assigned to the Lawyer, as  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  22 
 well as its requirements in accordance with the law, customary practice and the nature 
of such work;  
2. The retainer agreement may be relating to a legal proceeding, the execution or review of a contract or agreement, the giving of a legal opinion or advice, a stage of the legal proceeding such as appealing a judgment by any means of appeal or the initiation of 
enforcement procedures, or just a specific procedural action in respect of any existing 
legal proceeding, and the legal fees shall become due according to the agreement.  
3. In the absence of a retainer agreement, the legal fees shall become due as follows:  
a. If the work assigned to the lawyer is relating to  a particular legal proceeding or any 
phase thereof, such as appealing the judgment by any means of appeal, the lawyer 
shall, as a prerequisite to be entitled to the legal fees, handle the procedures on 
behalf of his / her client in respect of such a legal proceeding until both a judgment is 
rendered on the merits thereof at the litigation instance for which the lawyer is appointed, and such a judgment is served upon the adverse party;  
b. If the work assigned to the lawyer is relating to enforcement procedu res of a legal 
proceeding, the lawyer shall, as a prerequisite to be entitled to the legal fees, handle the enforcement procedures on behalf of his / her client until a final judgment is 
rendered by the court or where the enforcement procedures could not b e completed 
due to any reasons beyond the reasonable will of the lawyer, and after exhausting all 
legal procedures of enforcement; or  
c. If the work assigned to the lawyer is relating to a specific procedural task in respect of a pending legal proceeding o r a specific procedure in respect of any enforcement 
matter, the lawyer shall, as a prerequisite to be entitled to the legal fees, complete the 
work assigned to him / her.  
4. If the lawyer -client agreement provides that the legal fees shall be a percentage of the 
court -awarded amount, such a percentage shall not exceed (25% ) of the value of the 
court -awarded amount, and the Executive Regulations hereof shall determine the 
conditions governing the lawyer's eligibility to receive such fees. In which case, n o fees 
shall be due to the lawyer if the latter loses the underlying legal proceeding.  
   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  23 
 Article (50)  
If the lawyer is hired by several clients, each client shall be liable for his / her share in the 
legal fees, with the exception of cases where each clien t undertakes to pay full fees to the 
lawyer if either the subject of the work is indivisible or they agree under the retainer 
agreement to jointly pay the legal fees. Any client who pays off the debt in either case shall 
claim from the remaining clients th e payment of their respective shares.  
  
 
Article (51)  
If there are several lawyers handling a single case and are belonging to different law firms, 
each lawyer of them shall be entitled to receive his / her fees accor ding to the retainer 
agreement. In which case, the resignation or stepping down of any lawyer of them shall not 
affect the legal representation of the other lawyers, unless the power of attorney stipulates 
that all lawyers must jointly handle the same case . 
  
Article (52)  
1. The lawyer shall receive his / her fees according to the retainer agreement with the 
client. In addition, the Court that hears the case shall have the exclusive jurisdiction to 
reduce, at the client's request, the agreed fees of the lawyer, if the court is convinced that 
such fees are overestimated compared to the effort of the case and the benefit generated 
by the client. Moreover, the Court may increase the value of the agreed fees at the 
request of the lawyer if the latter makes eff ort and dedicates time for the underlying case 
in excess of the effort and time initially estimated as being required from the lawyer 
under the agreement and according to the consideration set forth in article (47) of this 
Decree Law.  
2. The legal fees may neither be reduced nor increased if their value is agreed upon after 
the agreed work is completed.  
3. In the absence of a retainer agreement, or of the retainer agreement is null and void, the 
Court that hears the case shall, where the re is a matter of disagreement, determine the 
fees due to the lawyer in the light of the effort made by the lawyer and the benefit  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  24 
 generated by the client.  
4. In all cases, the fees estimate application set forth in Clauses (1 ) and (3) of this Article 
shall be submitted to the Court under a petition that is subject to the procedures and 
controls of the writs on petitions referred to in the Civil Procedure Law and its Executive 
Regulations, and shall be served upon the adverse party.  
5. The lawyer ad client shall each have the right to file a grievance against the fees estimate writ within fifteen (15) days following the date of being notified of the underlying writ, 
by requiring its adverse party to appear before the court issuing the writ. Such a 
grievance shall be heard on an urgent basis.  
6. If the legal fees that are a matter of disagreement belong to any work that has nothing to 
do with the legal proceeding heard by the court, the lawyer and client may each institute 
a case for estimating and claim ing the legal fees according to the standard rules for 
instituting the case.  
  
Article (53)  
1. The lawyer's right to claim his / her legal fees shall lapse upon the passage of three (3 ) 
years following the termination date of the legal represen tation, the completion date of 
the underlying work or the date of removal of the lawyer, in the absence of any lawful excuse, whether the agreement is of an oral or written nature.  
2. Where there are several tasks assigned to the lawyer, the prescriptive  period set out in 
the foregoing clause shall apply to every task thereof on a case -by-case basis. 
Notwithstanding this stipulation, the prescriptive period shall only apply after the last of 
such tasks is completed, in the event that the underlying tasks are inseparably 
interconnected, or if it explicitly agreed that the fees shall only become due after all tasks 
are completed.  
  
Article (54)  
1. If the case assigned to the lawyer is finalized by amicable settlement as authorized by the 
client, the lawyer  shall be entitled to full legal fees unless otherwise agreed with the 
client.   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  25 
 2. If the case covered by the agreement gives rise to legal proceedings and activities that 
have not been taken into consideration upon executing the agreement, the lawyer may  
claim legal fees for the same.  
  
Article (55)  
The lawyer may not assign all or any part of the rights in dispute.  
  
Article (56)  
The lawye rs' legal fees and relevant expenses shall have a lien that is ranked directly next to 
the government's rights over the client's gains resulting from the lawyer's effort or from the 
judgment on the legal proceeding in question.  
  
Article (57)  
1. If the c lient removes the lawyer without a lawful reason after the lawyer has initiated the 
task assigned to him / her, the client shall be required to pay the full legal fees agreed 
upon, as if the lawyer has properly completed the whole work in favor of his / he r client.  
2. If the lawyer is removed before initiating the task assigned to him / her, the lawyer shall 
be entitled to fees for the effort made by him / her in preparation for initiating the 
underlying task, but not exceeding (25% ) of the agreed- upon fe es. 
3. In the absence of a retainer agreement, a case shall be instituted for estimating and 
claiming the same according to the standard procedures of instituting the case.  
  
Article (58)  
1. If the client passes away and the heirs decide that  the lawyer would not continue to act 
as their lawyer, the latter shall be entitled to legal fees for the effort made by him / her, 
taking into consideration the provisions of the retainer agreement between the lawyer 
and the deceased client, if any.  
2. In the absence of a retainer agreement between the lawyer and the deceased client, the 
lawyer may institute a case for estimating and claiming the legal fees according to the standard procedures of instituting the case.   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  26 
 Part Four  
Paralegals  
Chapter One  
Legal Researchers and Consultants 
Article (59)  
1. The work of the legal researcher and consultant shall be restricted to providing the legal 
services – not including the pleadings and legal representation before the courts and 
judicial committees – through the firm at which the same works. The paperwork of the 
legal researcher and consultant shall be issued on the law firm's letterhead and signed by 
a lawyer whose name is listed in the Roll of Practicing Lawyers of the same firm.  
2. The legal researcher and consultant shall be prohibited from instituting or following up on the legal proceedings before the public prosecution or the courts of the State of all 
instances by any means whatsoever, or representing third parties before the rental 
dispute resolution  committees or tax dispute committees or any committee of a judicial 
mandate.  
  
Article (60)  
1. The competent department shall keep a register for recording the names of legal 
researchers and consultants therein.  
2. The legal researchers and consultants shall only perform their job duties after both 
having their names listed in the register and payment of the prescribed fees.  
3. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall set out the conditions, controls and 
procedures of listing and renewal of listing of the names in, and transfer and removal of 
the names from, the said register.  
  
Article (61)  
1. Upon performing their duties, the legal researcher and consultant shall abide by the principles of honor, hones ty and integrity, shall safeguard the values of the profession, 
and shall respect its norms and ethics, relevant laws and decisions in the State, and the  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  27 
 Code.  
2. Upon performing the legal services, the legal researcher and consultant shall be 
prohibited from:  
a. Signing the statements of claim and submissions to be filed with the courts of all 
instances;  
b. Signing retainer agreements with the clients, whether in h is / her own name or in 
his / her capacity as a representative of the law firm;  
c. Providing legal consultations for his / her own benefit or for the benefit of any 
entity other than the law firm at which he / she is working;  
d. Claiming from the client an in-kind share of any right in dispute;  
e. Performing any work requested by the client if the same is involving violation of 
the applicable legislation in the State or of the ethics and norms of the profession; 
or 
f. Managing or co -managing the law firm on  behalf of the firm's owner in any way 
whatsoever, except for the circumstances set out in the Executive Regulations of 
this Decree Law.  
  
Article (62)  
The Competent Department may, at any point of time, verify the compliance by the legal 
researcher and co nsultant with the duties and obligations set forth in this Decree Law and its 
Executive Regulations and the relevant decisions. It may also request that any documents or 
paperwork be provided by the affiliated firms or conduct any investigation to verify t he 
same, after notifying the lawyer owing the firm.  
  
Article (63)  
The practicing legal consultant, who encounters any compelling circumstance that would 
preclude him / her from the practicing the profession, may submit an application to the 
Department in order to have his / her name moved to the Register of Non -Practicing Legal 
Consultants within thirty (30) days according to the controls set out in the Executive 
Regulations of this Decree Law. Once the compelling circumstance ceases to exist, the legal  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  28 
 consultant concerned may submit an application to have his / her name moved back to the 
Register of Practicing Legal Consultants.  
  
Chapter Two  
Repres entatives  
Article (64)  
1. The Competent Department shall keep a register that contains the names of representatives working at the law firms, in order to accept their dealings with the 
federal judicial authorities and competent bodies.  
2. The representative shall only perform his / her job duties at the law firm only after his / 
her name is listed in the said register.  
3. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall set out the conditions, controls and procedures for listing the representatives' names in the said register and removing such 
names from the same.  
4. The Competent Department may, at any point of time, verify the compliance by the 
representatives with the duties and obligations set forth in this Decree Law and its 
Executive Regulations, and may request that any documents or paperwork be provided 
by the law firms and their representatives, or conduct any investigation to verify the 
same such compliance.  
5. The representative or the lawyer owning the law firm at which the representative works, as the case may be, file a grievance against the decisions issued by the Competent 
Department according to the procedures set out in the Executive Regulations of this 
Decree Law.  
  
Article (65)  
The period of listing the representative's name in the Register shall be three (3 ) years 
renewable for further similar periods against the prescribed fees, and the Executive 
Regulations shall determine the requirements to be satis fied for the listing, and renewal of 
listing, of the representatives' names in the said register.  
   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  29 
 Article (66)  
Upon performing his / her job duties, the representative shall abide by the principles of 
honor, honesty and integrity, shall safeguard the values of the profession, and shall respect 
its norms and ethics, and relevant laws and decisions in force in the State. In particular, the 
representative shall:  
1. Ensure that his / her work is performed in favor of the employer firm, and not in favor of 
his / her personal interest or the interest of any third party; and  
2. Respect the judges and their assistants.  
  
Article (67)  
The representative shall be prohibited from:  
1. Pleading before the courts or public prosecution, or drawing up or signing any 
submissions or statements of claim;  
2. Delivering the representation deeds to the lawyers within the courtrooms;  
3. Disclosing the secrets that come to his / her knowledge e x officio , unless such 
disclosure would preclude the commission of a crime;  
4. Promoting the law firm at the buildings of courts and public prosecutions or at any other 
competent administrative authority;  
5. Communicating with the cour t judges or members of the public prosecution, unless such 
communication is based on their request; and  
6. Dealing with any entity in his / her capacity as a representative once the registration period recorded in the card delivered to him / her from the  competent department 
expires, unless the same is renewed according to the procedures and periods described 
in the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Part  Five  
Regulation of Law and Legal Consultation Firms and Companies  
Article (68)  
The lawyer sh all practice the legal profession singlehandedly through his / her own law firm,  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  30 
 in association with other lawyers whose names are listed in the Roll of Practicing Lawyers, in 
partnership with an international law firm under the umbrella of a professional law 
company, through a branch of a foreign law firm duly licensed in the State, or based on an 
employment contract with a law firm or company that is licensed under this Decree Law.  
  
Article (69)  
1. National citizens, who are listed in the registers of legal consultants kept with the Ministry, may be licensed to practice the legal consultation profession that is relating to 
the provision of non -judicial legal services, including, but not limited to, g iving the legal 
opinion, advice and consultation, drafting and drawing up the contracts and documents 
and relevant legal procedures, and other profession -related services that do not require 
appearance with the litigants or representing them before the jud icial or 
judicial- assigning entities.  
2. The legal consultant shall practice the profession singlehandedly through his / her own 
firm, in association with other legal consultants whose names are listed in the registers 
of legal consultants with the Minis try under the umbrella of a professional legal 
consultation company, through a branch of a foreign legal consultation firm duly licensed in the State, or based on an employment contract with a legal consultation firm 
or company that is licensed under this Decree Law.  
3. The owner or partners of the legal consultation firm shall not receive a license for 
establishing a law firm.  
  
Article (70)  
The law firm or legal consultation firm may be a branch of a foreign firm. As a prerequisite for approving the lic ensing of the foreign firm's branch, the following requirements shall be 
satisfied:  
1. The parent foreign firm must have an outstanding international reputation in the legal field;  
2. The parent foreign firm must have been operating for at least fiftee n (15)  years in the 
country of origin, and must have branches or subsidiaries in at least three (3)  different  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  31 
 countries;  
3. The foreign firm's branch required to be licensed must have a manager in charge of the 
branch's ac tivities in the State. Such a manager must have at least ten (10)  years of 
experience in the legal field, and must have his / her name listed in the Roll of Legal 
Consultants with the Ministry;  
4. The parent foreign firm and its branches must have at least twenty -five (25)  partners, 
and shall nominate at least two partners to represent it in the State;  
5. Appointing national lawyers and legal consultants according to the quota to be 
determined under a resolution of the Cabinet;  
6. Developing and qualifying the national personnel operating at the firm, and transferring 
the expertise and legal knowledge to them;  
7. Providing training to national lawyers whose names are listed in the Roll of Trainee 
lawyers; and  
8. Satisfying any other requirements se t out in the Executive Regulations of this Decree 
Law.  
  
Article (71)  
Every lawyer or legal consultant shall have an appr opriate firm for practicing the 
professional services according to the controls set out in the Executive Regulations of this 
Decree Law. In addition, the lawyer or legal consultant, as the case may be, shall keep the 
Ministry notified within fifteen (15) days of the date of issue of the firm's license, of the 
address of his / her firm and every change to it. Such a firm shall be deemed legally valid for 
the legal and judicial notices and communications according to this Decree Law.  
  
Article (72)  
Any profes sional license for the firm may only be issued by the local economic departments 
or the competent authorities in the free zones of the State or the legal consultant whose name is listed in the Roll of Practicing Legal Consultants kept with the Ministry bas ed on 
prior approval of the Ministry.  
   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  32 
 Article (73)  
The lawyer or legal consultant shall not be allowed to have more than one firm in a single 
city. If the lawyer or legal consultant has more than one firm in any emirate of the State, each 
firm shall have  at least one lawyer or legal consultant whose name is listed in the Roll of 
Practicing Lawyers or Legal Consultants.  
Article (74)  
The Competent Department shall keep a register of licensed firms in every emirate and free 
zone, containing details of the firm's legal form and the areas of work performed thereby, 
details of the license and its renewal, as well as the details of the part ners and managers of 
such firms and any changes thereto.  
  
Article (75)  
1. The law firms and legal consultation firms shall have any of the following legal forms:  
a. Sole proprietorship;  
b. Professional company; or  
c. Brach of a foreign firm.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall set out the controls, conditions and 
procedures of licensing, suspending, delicensing and liquidating the law firms and legal 
consultation firms that have the legal form of a sole proprietorship or a branc h of a 
foreign firm.  
3. The cabinet shall, based upon the Minister's proposal, issue the regulations of 
professional law companies and legal consultation companies.  
  
Article (76)  
1. The committee may, based on a a well- grounded application to be submitted thereto by 
the law firm or legal consultation firm, give permission to the firm to cease to provide the 
legal services for a specific period of time, provided that the firm furnishes an 
undertaking confirming the absence of any obligations on the part  of the firm as a result 
of providing the legal services, and that there would be no harm to the clients' interests.  
2. The committee may revoke the license of the firm, provided that the firm furnishes  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  33 
 an undertaking confirming the absence of any obligations on the part of the firm as a result 
of providing the legal services, and that there would be no harm to the clients' interests.  
 
Article (77)  
The license of th e law firm or legal consultation firm shall either be temporarily suspended 
by the Committee for a period not exceeding one year or be revoked by a decision of the 
committee under any of the following circumstances:  
1. If the law firm or legal consultation firm fails to have its license renewed for a period 
exceeding ninety (90) days without a lawful excuse admitted by the Committee.  
2. If the license granted to the firm is revoked by the licensing authority;  
3. If a judicial order is issued suspending or revoking the license issued by the committee or licensing authority;  
4. Liquidation of the firm;  
5. If the firm merges with any o ther firm that practices the profession according to the 
procedures and conditions set out in the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law; or  
6. If the firm no longer satisfies, or fails to comply with, any licensing requirements, or 
violates the legislation in force in the State or any of the provisions set out in the 
Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (78)  
Every stakeholder may file a written grievance with the Ministry against any of the decisions issued against himself / herself purs uant to the provisions hereof, within thirty (30) days 
following the date of issue of the underlying decisions. Such a grievance shall be heard and 
decided on by the committee whose decision shall be conclusive.  
  
Part Six 
Supervision of the Law and Legal Consultation Profession  
Chapter One  
Lawyers and Legal Consultants Affairs Committee  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  34 
 Article (79)  
A committee, to be known as the "Lawyers and Legal Consultants Affairs Committee" shall 
be formed based on a resolution of the Minister, as follows:  
The Undersecretary  Chairman  
A judge of the Federal Supreme Court  Member  
A judge of the Court of Appeal  Member  
A public prosecution member the rank of 
at least Advocate General Member  
The assistant undersecretary  Member  
Three practicing lawyers  Members  
A legal expert  Member  
Director of the Competent Department  Member and Rapporteur  
  
Article (80)  
1. The Committee shall exercise the following functions:  
a. Decide on the applications for listing, renewal of listing, suspension, transfer and removal, of the names in / from the roll of lawyers and registers of legal consultants;  
b. Moving the names from any roll to another roll of the lawyers and legal consultants ; 
c. Giving opinion on the counterpart work of the lawyers;  
d. Giving temporary permission to the lawyers of other State to conduct pleadings in particular legal proceedings;  
e. Receiving and investigating the complaints and grievances according to the provisions of this Decree Law; and  
f. Forming subcommittees among the members of the committee and assigning thereto certain duties of the committee.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall set out the committee's terms of 
reference and the conditions for granting the temporary permission to the lawyers of  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  35 
 other States to conduct pleadings before the courts of the State.  
  
Chapter Two  
The Ministry's Competent Department  
Article (81)  
The Competent Department may verify the compliance by the lawyers, legal consultants and 
law firms with the duties and obligations set forth in this Decree Law and its Executive 
Regulations and the relevant ministerial resolutions. It may also request that any documents 
or paperwork be provided by the lawyers or law firms and shall take the appropriate 
measures to verify the same, as determined by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law, 
and shall submit a report to the committee on any  violations committed by the lawyers and 
legal consultants.  
  
Article (82)  
1. The applications for listing, and renewal of li sting, in the rolls of lawyers shall be 
submitted to the Competent Department on the relevant forms, accompanied by the 
supporting documents of the application.  
2. The committee may demand any further clarifications or information if deemed necessary.  
  
Part Seven  
Judicial Assistance  
Article (83)  
The public prosecution or the competent court, as the case may be, shall appoint a lawyer to represent the party who is relieved of the judicial fees due to its insolvency or as a means of 
providing judicial assistance to the parties that are unable to handle the legal proceedings 
that are required by this Decree Law to be handled by a lawyer.  
  
  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  36 
 Article (84)  
If several lawyers refuse legal representation in respect of the legal proceedings that are 
required by this Decree Law to be handled by a lawyer, the competent court shall, based on 
the interested person's request, appoint a lawyer for such purpose.  
  
Article (85)  
If the lawyer passes away, is suspended, his / her name is removed fr om the roll, his / her 
freedom is restricted, or becomes unable to conduct the legal representation, the court may, at the request of his / her client, appoint a lawyer, belonging to at least the same registration 
rank, to temporarily replace him / her unt il the client hires any substitute lawyer, unless the 
lawyer or his / her heirs nominate any substitute lawyer whose task would be to take the 
necessary actions for safeguarding their interests.  
  
Part Nine  
Disciplinary and Penal Liability  
Chapter One  
Disciplinary Liability  
Article (86)  
Any lawyer or legal consultant, who violates the duties of his / her profession, breaches any 
professional obligations, commits any of the prohibited acts set forth in this Decree Law or 
its Executive Regulations or the decisions to be issued in implementation hereof or the Code, 
or acts in any inappropriate way that spoils the prestige of the profession, shall be subject to 
any of the following disciplinary penalties:  
1. Warning;  
2. Administrative fine of not less than A ED (5,000) five thousand dirhams, and not 
exceeding AED (30,000)  thirty thousand dirhams;  
3. Suspension from practicing the profession for not more than two years; or  
4. Irrevocably removing his / her name from the Roll or Register.  
The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law shall set out the effects of the suspension and  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  37 
 removal of the lawyer's / legal consultant's name from the Roll.  
  
Article (87)  
1. The Committee may either of the penalties set forth in Articles (86.1) and (86.2 ) of this 
Decree Law, if it becomes convinced, in light of the evidence to be furnished by the party 
concerned, that the underlying violation is insignificant.  
2. The lawyer and legal consultant may each file a grievance with the Minister against the committee's decision of conviction, within fifteen (15) days of the date of receiving the 
notice of the decision.  
3. The Disciplinary Board may impose any of the penalties set forth in article (86) of this 
Decree Law.  
  
Article (88)  
1. The complaint against the lawyer or legal consultant shall be filed with the committee against the prescribed fee, and the complainant may file a grievance against the 
committee's decision to dismiss the complaint with the Minister within fifteen (15) days 
of the date of being notified of the underlying decision.  
2. If an insignificant violation is committed by the lawyer or legal consultant more than 
once, or if the violation is of a significant effect, the matter shall be escalated to the 
Public Prosecu tion.  
3. Referral of the complaint to the Disciplinary Board shall be conducted based on an order of the Public Prosecution after an investigation to be conducted by the Public 
Prosecution, and the latter may order that the complaint be dismissed. In all cases, the 
committee shall be notified of the Public Prosecution's decision.  
  
Article (89)  
The lawyer's or legal consultant's resignation shall not be deemed a ground precluding the 
imposition of disciplinary measures against them, for any wrongful acts committed in the 
course of practicing the profession, within the three years following their resignation date.  
   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  38 
 Article (90)  
Disciplinary Board 
The disciplinary board shall be formed based on a resolution of the Minister, under the 
chairmanship of a chief  judge of the Courts of Appeal, and shall have two members from the 
Courts of Appeal.  
 
Article (91)  
1. The lawyer or legal consultant, as the case may be, shall be notified to appear before the competent disciplinary board by personal delivery, via email, or by any means of modern 
communication, at least fifteen (15 ) days prior to the scheduled hearing date. If the 
lawyer or legal consultant concerned fails to appear, the board may proceed with the 
trial in absentia.  
2. The lawyer or legal consultant, as the case may be, may appoint a lawyer to defend him / 
her before the disciplinary board, and the latter may order that the lawyer or legal 
consultant appear in person, if necessary.  
  
Article (92)  
The disciplinary board may, either sua sponte or based on the request of the Public 
Prosecution or the Lawyer or Legal Consultant -  as the case may be –  who is referred to the 
disciplinary board, summon any witnesses whose statement is deemed important. If  any 
witness fails to appear without any acceptable justification, or if any witness appears but willfully fails to give his / her statement, the board may impose on him / her a fine of not less 
than AED (1,000) one thousand dirhams, and not exceeding AED (3,000) three thousand 
dirhams.  
  
Article (93)  
Hearings of the disciplinary board shall be held behind closed doors, and the decisions shall 
be issued after hearing the claims of the Public Prosecution and the defense of the Lawyer or 
Legal Cons ultant - as the case may be – who is referred to the disciplinary board, or his / her  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  39 
 legal representative. The board's decision shall be substantiated.  
  
Article (94)  
The disciplinary decisions shall be served by the legal means of service, and the delive ry of 
the decision's photocopy to the Lawyer or Legal Consultant -  as the case may be – shall be 
deemed an actual service of the underlying decision. Disciplinary decisions shall not be 
challenged by way of opposition.  
  
Article (95)  
1. The Public Prosec ution and the lawyer or legal consultant –  as the case may be –  who is 
found guilty, may appeal against the disciplinary board's decision before the Federal Supreme Court, within fifteen (15) days following the date of issue of the underlying 
decision with  regard to the public prosecution, and within fifteen (15) days following the 
date of serving the decision upon, or delivering a copy of the decision to, the lawyer 
concerned. Such appeal shall be based on a statement of appeal to be filed with the 
Federal  Supreme Court.  
2. The appeal shall be heard by the criminal cassation chamber behind closed doors, in 
accordance with the rules set out in the Criminal Procedure Law referred to hereinabove.  
  
Article (96)  
1. The lawyer or legal consultant –  as the case may be –  against whom a final judgment is 
rendered by the competent court or a decision is issued by the disciplinary board 
removing his / her name from the Roll or Register, may, after the passage of at least three 
(3) years, submit an applic ation to the Committee to have his / her name re -listed in the 
Roll or Register. The committee may admit such application and decide that the name be 
re-listed, unless the lawyer or legal consultant –  as the case may be –  is convicted on the 
grounds of a c rime involving moral turpitude or breach of trust, even if rehabilitated.  
2. If the committee decides that the application be rejected, the application may only be 
re-submitted after one year following the rejection date.  
3. In all cases, the decision shall be substantiated.   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  40 
 Chapter Two  
Criminal Liability and Penalties  
Article (97)  
Whoever assaults a lawyer by hand or by threatening, insulting or defamatory speech in the 
course of performing his / her professional duties, shall be penalized with imprisonment 
sentence for a term of not less than one year and / or a fine of not less th an AED (50,000)  
fifty thousand dirhams, and not exceeding AED (300,000) three hundred thousand dirhams.  
  
Article (98)  
Whoever, with intent to practice the profession without a license, leases a law firm's 
premises although his / her name is not listed in the Roll of Practicing Lawyers, shall be 
penalized with imprisonment sentence for a term of not less than three (3) months and / or 
a fine of not less than AED (30,000) thirty thousand dirhams, and not exceeding AED 
(100,000) three hundred th ousand dirhams.  
  
Article (99)  
Any lawyer, who knowingly leases out his / her law firm to a third party or enters into 
partnership with somebody whose name is not listed in the Roll of Practicing Lawyers, shall 
be penalized with a fine of not less than AED  (50,000) fifty thousand dirhams, and not 
exceeding AED (300,000 ) three hundred thousand dirhams.  
  
Article (100)  
Imprisonment sentence for a term of not less than three (3 ) months and / or a fine of not less 
than AED (30,000 ) thirty thousand dirhams, and not exceeding AED (100,000) one hundred 
thousand dinars, shall be imposed on:  
1. Whoever impersonates a lawyer or practices the profession without having the 
professional license according to the provisions hereof; and  
2. Whoever practices the profession after his / her name is removed from the Roll of Lawyers.   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  41 
 Article (101)  
A fine penalty of not less than AED (20,000) twenty thousand dirhams, and not exceeding 
AED (200,000)  two hundred thousand dirhams, shall be imposed on  any person who 
attempts, in consideration of a commission, to entice clients in favor of any lawyer. 
Imprisonment sentence for a term of not less than one year shall be imposed in the event of 
recidivism.  
  
Article (102)  
Imprisonment sentence for a term not exceeding six (6 ) months and / or a fine of not less 
than AED (20,000) twenty thousand dirhams and not exceeding AED (100,000)  one 
hundred thousand dirhams, shall be imposed on any lawyer who accepts the legal 
represent ation, or performs, or continues to perform, any of the professional duties set forth 
in article (6.1)  hereof despite being aware of the occurrence of conflict of interest, and 
without keeping the client informed of the same.  
  
Article (103)  
The imposition of the penalties set forth in this Decree Law shall not prejudice any more severe penalties provided for in any other law.  
  
Part Ten  
Final Provisions  
Article (104)  
The Cabinet shall issue a resolution setting out the prescribed fees according to the provisions of this Decree Law and its Executive Regulations.  
  
Article (105)  
The Cabinet shall, based upon the Minister's proposal, issue a resolution setting out the criteria and requirements for classifying and evaluating the performance of the  law firms, 
lawyer and legal consultants, and designating the entity in charge of the implementation of  
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  42 
 such criteria and requirements, in order to ensure the achievement of international best 
practices, while ensuring the confidently required in this resp ect. 
 
Article (106)  
The Cabinet shall, based upon the Minister's proposal, issue a resolution approving the Code of the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession. Any violation of the provisions of 
such a Code shall give rise to the disciplinary p enalties set forth in article ( 86) of this Decree 
Law.  
  
Article (107)  
The Cabinet shall, based upon the Minister's proposal, issue the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (108)  
Employees of the Competent Department, whose names are listed in a resolution to be 
issued by the Minister, shall have the capacity of judicial officers with regard to the crimes 
committed in violation of the provisions of this Decree Law and its Executive  Regulations 
and the decisions issued in implementation hereof, within the area of competence of each of 
them.  
  
Article (109)  
The Cabinet may, based upon the Minister's proposal, issue the regulations of administrative 
penalties for the acts committed in violation of the provisions of this Decree Law and its 
Executive Regulations.  
  
Article (110)  
The Minister shall issue the decisions required for implementing the provisions of this 
Decree Law and its Executive Regulations.  
   
Federal Decree Law No. (34) of 2022  Regulating the Legal Profession and Legal Consultation Profession  43 
 Article (111)  
1.  Federal Law No. (23) of 1991 Regulating the Legal profession, as amended, shall hereby 
be repealed.  
2. Any violation that goes against or conflicts with the provisions hereof shall hereby be 
repealed.  
3. The Executive Regulations and decisions in  force upon the promulgation of this Decree 
Law shall continue in full force and effect, insofar as they do not go against the 
provisions hereof, until the Executive Regulations and implementing decisions of this 
Decree Law are issued.  
  
Article (112)  
This  Decree Law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force on 
January 2, 2023.  
  
 
 
 
Mohamed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the U nited Arab Emirates  
 
 
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace, Abu Dhabi : 
Date: 7 Rabi' I, 1444 AH  
Corresponding to: 3 October, 2022 AD  
 
 