 
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  1 
 Federal Law No. (12) of 2023  
on Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  
 
We, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan,        President of the United Arab Emirates;  
− Upon reviewing the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Jurisdictions of Ministries and Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 Promulgating the Civil Transactions Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law by Decree No. (15) of 2018 Concerning the Collection of Public Revenues and Funds;  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (16) of 2018 concerning the Federal Government Union 
Owned Properties;  
− Federal Decree- Law No. (26) of 2019 Concerning Public Finance, as amended;  
− Federal Law by Decree No. (32) of 2021 Concerning Commercial Companies;  
Upon the proposal of the Minister of Finance as approved by the Cabinet and the Federal 
National Council; and as ratified by the Federal Supreme Council;  
Have issued  the following Law:  
  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In applying the provisions of this Law, the following words and expressions shall have the 
meanings ascribed thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:  
 
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Government  : The Federal Government of the State.  
Ministry  : Ministry of Finance.  
Minister  : Minister of Finance.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  2 
 Federal Public 
Sector  : Any ministry established in accordance with Federal Law No. (1) of 
1972  Concerning the functions of ministries and the powers of 
ministers, and its amendments, any federal authority, institution or 
regulatory bodies, as well as any other bodies affiliated with the 
federal government . 
Concerned 
Federal Agency  : The federal ag ency responsible for proposing the project.  
 
General Budget  
Committee  : The committee formed by the Cabinet.  
 
Private Sector  : Companies and commercial institutions (this shall not include 
companies and commercial institutions wholly owned by the 
government).  
Potential 
Partnership 
Project  
 : Any project that is proven - after evaluating its feasibility -  to 
meet the criteria for partnership projects specified in the 
Partnership Projects Guide.  
Partnership 
Project  
 : A contractual relationship between a federal agency (or several 
federal agencies) and one or more part ners from the private 
sector established in accordance with the provisions hereof, 
which aims to provide a public service or operate a public facility.  
Partner  : Any legal person or coalition of legal persons, from the private 
sector, that is a party to the partnership contract.  
 
Project 
Company  : Any company or institution established by the partner to 
implement the project.  
 
Project 
Agreement  : A contract concluded by the concerned federal agency with the 
partner with the aim of regulati ng the relationship between the 
parties regarding the partnership project.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  3 
 Project Team  : The team responsible for developing the project idea and 
presenting it.  
Grievance 
Committee  : A grievance committee formed by the Minister in accordance 
with the pr ovisions of Clause (2) of article (20) hereof.  
Partnership 
Projects Guide  : A guide issued in accordance with the provisions hereof and contains 
the rules, provisions and procedures related to partnership projects.  
 
Article (2) 
 Law Objectives  
This Law aims to achieve the following:  
1. Organising partnership projects between the federal public sector and the private sector 
in the State.  
2. Encouraging the priv ate sector to participate in development and strategic projects, and 
increase investment in projects of economic, social and service value.  
3. Enabling the government to efficiently and effectively implement the strategic projects 
thereof  
4. Benefiting  from the financial, administrative, organisational, technical and technological 
capabilities and expertise available in the private sector, to enable the community to obtain the best services in a way that achieves the best value for the cost.  
5. Increa sing productivity and improving the quality of public services, while ensuring 
effective management for the development of those services.  
6. Transferring knowledge and experience from the private sector to the federal agencies, 
and training and qualifying employees of federal agencies in the State to manage and 
operate projects.  
7. Implementing projects that provide added value to public money.  
8. Reducing the burden of financial and operational risks on the government that may result from implementing projects.  
9. Shifting in the management of some infrastructure projects and public services from implementation, operation, and direct management to other forms of implementation in 
accordance with approved policies and controls to achieve quality.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  4 
 10. Stimulating the competitiveness of projects in local, regional and global markets.  
  
Article (3) 
 Scope of Application  
The provisions of this law shall apply to any partnership project funded in whole or part by 
the private sector and proposed by a federal agency.  
  
Article (4)  
Exclusions  
The provisions of this law shall not apply to:  
1. Partnership contracts concluded before the entry into force of this law in a manner that shall not conflict with the provisions of article (32) hereof;  
2. Outsourcing the services specified in the Partnership Projects Guide;  
3. Projects whose value is less than the financial limit stipulate d in the Partnership Projects 
Guide;  
4. Projects to privatise public assets and services;  
5. Supply and procurement contracts related to national security identified in the 
Partnership Projects Guide; and  
6. Federal agencies, sectors and projects that are excluded pursuant to the Cabinet 
resolution.  
  
Article (5)  
Competences of the Ministry  
For the purposes of implementing this law, the Ministry shall have the following duties:  
1. Proposing a guide for partnership projects and submitting Cabinet for approval;  
2. Preparing and issuing a guide to the management and implementation of the 
partnership project, including the provisions regulating the management and 
supervision of partne rship projects during the implementation phase;  
3. Preparing, issuing and amending evidence and all forms and documents related to  
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  5 
 partnership projects, subject to Clause (1) of this Article;  
4. Proposing to update the legislation regulating partnership projects between federal 
agencies and the private sector in accordance with international best practices;  
5. Working to provide the appropriate environment to attract the private sector to 
partic ipate in partnership projects and overcome difficulties that may hinder the success 
of partnership projects;  
6. Providing assistance and support to federal agencies in the process of offering partnership projects pursuant to the stipulations hereof, if n ecessary, and encouraging 
federal agencies to use the partnership projects method;  
7. Studying and evaluating the offers and feasibility studies submitted by the federal agencies and the private sector and determine the feasibility of presenting them as a partnership project, after coordination with the relevant authorities if the need arises;  
8. Guiding federal agencies regarding the mechanism for preparing feasibility studies and 
other studies related to evaluating partnership projects;  
9. Providing  advice to the federal agencies regarding the proposal and implementation of 
partnership projects, if necessary, according to the Ministry discretion;  
10. Creating a data record for partnership projects; and  
11. Measuring the success of partnership projects on a regular basis and submitting periodic reports thereon to the General Budget Committee.  
  
Article (6) 
 Concerned Federal Agency Competences 
For the purposes of implementing this law, the concerned federal agency shall have 
jurisdiction over the following:  
1. Proposing partnership projects and preparing all the necessary studies to evaluate the 
partnership project and determine the financial, economic, technical and social 
feasibility of the project and the  risks and implications thereof in accordance with the 
requirements of the Partnership Projects Guide;  
2. Preparing the initial budget for the partnership project in cooperation with the project  
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  6 
 team in accordance with the guides and models related to pr eparing budgets issued by 
the Ministry and the Partnership Projects Guide;  
3. Determining all the technical specifications and requirements related to the partnership 
project;  
4. Coordinating with the Ministry to for mulate the structure of the partnership project, 
including determining the partnership methods appropriate to the nature of the project, 
the nature of the contribution of the two partnership parties to the project, and the 
distribution of shares and financ ial returns resulting from it;  
5. Proposing fees for services related to the partnership project;  
6. Supporting the project team in preparing the bidding documents and the terms and specifications booklet for the partnership project;  
7. Implementing its obligations stipulated in the project agreement and exercising the 
rights contained therein;  
8. Coordinating with other government and federal agencies concerned with the project to ensure that the partnership project outputs are aligned with their p lans;  
9. Supervising the private sector proper implementation of partnership projects in accordance with the provisions of article (25) of this law, without prejudice to the 
powers of other regulatory bodies;  
10. Working on overcoming the difficulties that prevent partnership projects from achieving 
their desired goals in coordination with the competent authorities in the State; and  
11. Preparing periodic quarterly reports for each of the partnership projects pr oposed 
thereby and submitting the same to the Ministry.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  7 
 Article (7)  
Project Team Formation  
1. For each potential partnership project, a project team shall be formed, and the Partnership 
Projects Guide shall specify the mechanism for forming the team.  
2. The project team shall undertake the following:  
A. Coordinating and managing the bidding procedures for the partnership project and 
partner selection;  
B. Preparing the initial budget for the project in coordination with the concerned federal agency;  
C. Preparing the bidding documents, the terms and conditions booklet, the partnership 
project specifications, and the project agreement;  
D. Evaluating and opening bids in accordance with the evaluation procedures and criteria 
specified in the bidding documents and the Partnership Projects Guide;  
E. Ensuring the application of the principles of transparency, fair competition, and equal 
opportunities in accordance with the provisions of this law and the Partnership Projects 
Guide; and  
F. Any other powers stipulated herein or in the Partnership Projects Guide.  
  
Article (8)  
Project Selection  
1. The concerned federal agency, ministry, or private sector may propose a partnership project.  
2. The Ministry shall decide, in agreement with the concerned federal agency whether the 
project proposed to be presented as a partnership project deserves to be selected as a potential partnership project, in accordance with the criteria specified by the Partnership 
Projects Guide.  
3. When selecting a project as a potential partnership project, it shall be evaluated in 
accordance with the procedures stipulated in the Partnership Projects Guide.  
4. The Partnership Projects Guide shall specify the standards and studies required in the 
project selection and approval stages.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  8 
   
Article (9) 
 Project Proposal by the Federal Agency  
When intending to conclude a partnership project, the federal agency shall abide by the 
following:  
1. Ensuring that the project meets  the criteria for partnership projects specified by this law 
and the Partnership Projects Guide, and studying the suitability of presenting any of its 
projects as a partnership project;  
2. Proposing the project in an alternative manner if there are strat egic reasons or reasons 
related to the public interest;  
3. Providing evidence that it has considered the option of partnership projects in relation to its projects whenever requested by the Ministry; and  
4. Preparing a project presentation when it wish es to hold a partnership project, including 
justifications for selecting the project, and submitting it to the Ministry in accordance 
with the procedures specified in the Partnership Projects Guide.  
  
Article (10)  
 Project Proposal by the Private Sector 
1. The private sector may submit an initiative to any federal agency or the Ministry to 
propose a project as a partnership project. The federal agency shall, whenever the initiative 
is directly presented thereto, submit it to the Ministry in accordance with the procedures 
contained herein and the Partnership Projects Guide.  
2. The Partnership Projects Guide shall specify the provisions that regulate partnership 
project initiatives submitted by the private sector, including the following provisions : 
A. The mechanism for submitting initiatives and the method of evaluating, accepting and 
presenting them;  
B. Guarantees to protect confidential information, intellectual property rights, business 
secrets, and any special exclusive rights associated with the initiative; and  
C. Incentives and benefits provided to the initiative owner.  
   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  9 
 Article (11)  
 Project Adoption  
1. The federal agency or the private sector shall submit the project to the Ministry for 
approval as a potential partnership project, including the details specified in the Partnership 
Projects Guide.  
2. The Ministry shall study the project and evaluate it in accordance with the requirements hereof and the Partnership Projects Guide.  
3. If the project meets the requirements of partnership projects  and there is no financial 
approval for the project, the Ministry shall submit the proposal for the initial approval of the project by the General Budget Committee and after its approval, it shall be submitted to the 
Cabinet for final adoption.  
4. The Ministry may submit the project directly to the Cabinet in case of the absence of a 
financial approval for the project.  
5. In case of project adoption by the Cabinet, the Ministry shall notify the concerned federal 
agency of the project approval.  
6. The Partne rship Projects Guide shall specify the approvals required at each stage of 
developing and launching the partnership project.  
  
Article (12)  
Budget Approval  
1. The project team, in cooperation with the concerned federal agency, shall develop the 
initial budget for the partnership project in accordance with the budget preparation 
provisions issued by the Ministry.  
2. No partnership project that entails expenses  may be proposed to any federal agency 
unless the cost of the project for the implementation duration thereof is fully approved by the government.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  10 
 Article (13)  
Government Financial Guarantees  
1. Subject to the legislation in force in the State, the co ncerned federal agency may -  based 
on the needs of the project - propose to the Ministry to issue a government guarantee to 
secure the financial obligations of the federal agency stipulated in the terms of the project 
agreement.  
2. The Partnership Projects  Guide shall specify the conditions and procedures for requesting 
a government financial guarantee, and the mechanisms for deciding thereon.  
  
Article (14)  
 Types of Partnership Projects  
Partnership projects implemented in accordance with this law shall fall within one of the 
following types:  
1. Building, operating and transferring;  
2. Building, owning, operating and transferring;  
3. Building, owning and operating;  
4. Financial benefit from the assets;  
5. Building, owning, renting and transferring;  
6. Management contracts; and  
7. Any other types specified in the Partnership Projects Guide.  
  
Article (15)  
 Bidding Methods and P rocedures  
1. Partnership projects shall be proposed according to one of the following methods:  
A. The two- stage method shall be as follows:  
   Stage One : During which a pre -qualification shall be conducted for a group of 
private sector entities that have express ed interest in the project.  
   Second Two : During which the complete bidding documents shall be issued 
exclusively to the potential partners who have been qualified.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  11 
 B. Expedited procedure method:  The Bidding may be made through the expedited 
procedure  method, which consists of one stage - without a qualification procedure -  in 
any of the following cases:  
1) There is a need to urgently put the project out for bidding; or  
2) If the project team believes that there is no need to conduct qualification in the 
event that there is a limited number of suitable potential partners in the market 
or the absence of a complex technical aspect of the project, which makes the 
competition li mited to financial aspects only, or for any other reason that does 
not require the qualification of partners.  
C. Direct appointment method : The Bidding may be conducted through the direct 
appointment method, where the concerned federal agency negotiates directly with one 
or more potential partners. This method shall be used only in the following cases:  
1) The need to provide assets or provide a service in an urgent manner that is not 
compatible with the procedures specified in paragraphs (A) and (B) of Clause (1) 
of this Article;  
2) The presence of one potential partner in the market with the ability to implement 
the project;  
3) The connection or attachment of some or all of the project components to 
national security or the protection of state secrets; or  
4) Any other necessary and urgent matters related to the public interest, provided 
that the Minister agrees to use this procedure to raise them.  
2. In the event that there is only one potential partner for the project, the concerned federal 
agency may ter minate the tender or continue the bid and award the project to such potential 
partner, after taking into account the following two conditions:  
A. Fulfilling the requirements of the bidding documents; and  
B. There is evidence of a sufficient value to cost ratio in the bid to achieve a 
value -for-money assessment.  
3. The Partnership Projects Guide shall specify the procedures for each of the bidding 
methods mentioned in this article.  
   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  12 
 Article (16)  
 Submitting P roposals  
1. The proposal for the partnership project shall be submitted either by one partner from the 
private sector or from a coalition consisting of several partners from the private sector.  
2. In case of submitting the proposal by a coalition of partne rs, it shall be submitted in the 
name of the coalition, and any member of the coalition shall be prohibited from submitting 
individual proposals, whether directly or through another coalition, or from submitting the 
proposal from a company in which one of the coalition members owns a majority of the capital or controls its management, unless the terms of the bid stipulate otherwise or with 
the approval of the concerned federal agency.  
3. Any federal agency may participate in the public bidding for the partnership project, after the Ministry approval of such participation.  
  
Article (17) Evaluating Proposals  
1. The project team shall study and evaluate the submitted proposals considering the 
technical, financial and legal aspects, and determine the accepted and excluded ones, 
provided that each proposal shall be given a score for evaluation in accordance with the 
evaluation criteria specified in the bidding documents.  
2. The project team shall submit its recommendations with the results of the proposals evaluation,  including a list of proposals that have passed the minimum evaluation threshold, 
to the ministry and the concerned federal agency for approval.  
3. The project team may, whenever it deems this to be in the interest of the project and in 
coordination with t he Ministry and the concerned federal agency, decide to request 
additional clarifications after submitting the proposals, including but not limited to -  asking 
the bidders to submit their "best and final bid".  
4. If the project team is unable to agree on t he project provisions and the project agreement 
with the best bidder according to the evaluation results, the project team shall be entitled to stop the discussion with the best bidder and move on to negotiating the project provisions 
and the project agree ment with the following bidders according to their descending order 
on the list of bids that won the best rating.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  13 
   
Article (18)  
 Cancellation or Modification of the B idding or P roject Procedures  
1. The concerned federal agency, in coordination with the Ministry, may cancel or modify 
the tender or project procedures at any time before awarding the project.  
2. No party submitting a proposal for a partnership project may be entitled to claim a 
compensation for cancelling or amending the bid or project.  
  
Article (19) Tender Awarding Announcement  
The concerned federal agency shall notify the awarded bidder that the bid has been 
awarded thereto them, and inform the rest of the bidders of the result of the bid award.  
  
Article (20)  
 Appealing Against Tender Proce dures  
1. The private sector bidder for any project may submit, within a maximum of ten (10) days from the date of awarding the bid, a grievance request to the Ministry in the following cases:  
A. The bidding documents or procedures violate the provisions hereof, the Partnership 
Projects Guide, or other relevant laws;  
B. The partner selection procedures violate the provisions hereof, the Partnership Projects 
Guide, or other relevant laws in a way that affects transparency and fair competition 
among bidder s; or  
C. Proving a bribery, illegal commissions, bid rigging, fraud, or power abuse with the aim of 
illegally influencing the tender procedures, to the extent that such actions have an actual 
impact on the results of the tender aw ard, without prejudice to the provisions of any 
other relevant law.  
2. Grievances committee shall be established by a decision of the Minister to consider the submitted grievances related to the bidding procedures. The Partnership Projects Guide shall 
spec ify the grievance mechanism, procedures, and durations.  
3. The grievance request shall be based on one of the reasons referred to in Clause (1) of this  
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  14 
 Article and shall include an explanation of the direct impact of those reasons in weakening 
the chance o f winning the bid or that they were the direct reason for losing the bid in the 
event that the bid is awarded, along with all the documents supporting the application.  
4. The Grievances Committee may suspend the tender procedures until the application is decided upon, whenever it finds the application worthy of consideration and that 
continuing the procedures would significantly weaken the applicant chances of winning the bid.  
5. If the Grievances Committee finds that the reasons for the grievance are valid , it shall issue 
recommendations thereof, either to correct the wrong procedure, exclude one of the 
applicants, or take any other measures; or reject the grievance because the reasons are not 
valid, and submit its recommendations to the Minister for approv al before taking any action.  
  
Article (21)  
 Project Agreement  
1. The project team shall prepare the project agreement in coordination with the Ministry and the concerned federal agency in accordance with the provisions hereof and  the 
Partnership Projects Guide.  
2. The Partnership Projects Guide shall specify the provisions that shall be included in the project agreement, including, but not limited to, provisions related to changing laws, 
changing economic conditions due to unfores een circumstances when contracting, the 
project agreement amendment, termination provisions, and compensation resulting from 
termination.  
3. The project agreement may include a statement of the financial revenues available to the private sector according t o one of the following methods:  
A. Payments made in exchange for providing the project or service.  
B. Granting the partner,  the right to collect and retain revenues from the use of an asset or 
service or to share in the revenue resulting from such use.  
C. Combining the two methods referred to in Paragraphs (A) and (B) of Clause (3) of this 
Article.  
D. Any other method agreed upon.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  15 
 4. The project agreement may require the partner to employ national workers or local 
contractors and to use local materials, equipment and goods, and any of such requirements 
shall be explicitly disclosed in the bidding documents.  
5. After the period for submitting the grievance or deciding upon it has passed in accordance 
with article (20) of this law, the project agreemen t shall be signed in Arabic -  or English if 
necessary - by the concerned federal agency and the partner to whom the tender is awarded.  
6. The project agreement shall be subject to the laws in force in the State.  
  
Article (22)  
 Troubled Projects  
1. The concerned federal agency shall replace the partner and take control of the partnership project to ensure its continued implementation in cases where the partner fails to 
implement the project and their failure is detrimental to the public interest, an interruption 
in the services of a public facility, or the cessation of the provision of the public service 
whose continuation is required by the public interest, without prejudice to the right of the 
federal agency to claim any compensation for damages resulting from failure to implement the project.  
2. The Partnership Projects Guide shall specify the provisions for troubled projects.  
  
Article (23)  
 Mortgage  
1. The partner may -  after obtaining the approval of the concerned federal agency -  
mortgage any  of their assets and the following rights related to the project to guarantee the 
financing they obtained to implement the project:  
A. Mortgage of immovable and movable rights owned by a partner or the rights thereof to 
the assets of the partnership project or project company.  
B. Mortgage the right of the partner or the project company, if it is owned in the name and 
for the account of any of them, to the revenues and payments resulting from the use of 
the facility or service subject to the partnership project.  
2. The concerned federal agency shall be a party to any agreement that gives the funding  
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  16 
 parties the right to replace the partner in the project agreement, and the concerned federal 
agency may object to any of the funding parties.  
3. The provision s regulating mortgages in accordance with the laws in force in the State shall 
apply to the mortgages referred to in this article unless the project agreement stipulates otherwise.  
  
Article (24)  
 Incentives and Exemptions  
Incentives may be granted to priv ate sector partners in partnership projects, for the purpose 
of increasing the attractiveness of the partnership project. The types of such incentives shall 
be determined by a decision of the Cabinet based on the Minister recommendation.  
  
Article (25)  
 Supervising the Project Implementation  
The concerned federal agency shall supervise the implementation of the project and manage 
the implementation phase in accordance with the provisions of the project agreement and 
the guides and forms issued by the Ministry. The Ministry role in the implementation phase 
shall be limited to monitoring and providing support to the concerned federal agency 
whenever required.  
  
Article (26)  
 Partnership Projects Guide Content  
The Partnership Projects Guide shall specify the  detailed provisions regulating partnership 
projects, in particular:  
1. Governance and procedures for offering partnership projects, including project 
proposals, value -for-money assessments, market studies, project structuring and 
management, bidding pro cedures, mechanisms for requesting clarifications, 
conferences, and criteria for offering projects.  
2. Special requirements related to the content of the bidding documents and the project  
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  17 
 agreement.  
3. Special requirements related to any dates and time  frames that shall be followed for the 
bidding procedures.  
4. Special requirements related to the criteria for selecting a partner and evaluating bids, as 
well as the qualifications required for the project team.  
5. The rules governing requesting the best and last offer and negotiating with a potential partner.  
6. Requirements for disclosure and publishing the basic information related to presenting 
partnership projects on websites and the media.  
7. The provisions regulating the management of contracts and the supervision of 
partnership projects during the implementation phase and the procedures for managing and implementing the project agreement, including the provisions for making payments 
and the P owers Matrix determined by the federal agency.  
8. The rules governing the change of control, the composition of partners, or the partner structure.  
9. The rules governing force majeure and exceptional circumstances that may occur during 
project impleme ntation.  
10. The rules governing the termination of the project agreement and the compensation 
mechanism upon termination.  
11. The rules governing the arrangement of mortgages on assets related to the project and 
any agreement that may grant the financing parties the right to replace the partner in 
implementing the project or to control or acquire it.  
12. Any other provisions t hat the law has regulated in the Partnership Projects Guide or that 
the Cabinet decided to add.  
  
Article (27)  
 Transparency and D isclosure in the Bidding Procedures  
1. Bidding procedures shall be subject to the principles of transparency, freedom of compe tition and equal opportunities, and shall be implemented in accordance with the rules 
and procedures stipulated in this law and the Partnership Projects Guide.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  18 
 2. In order to achieve the principle of transparency and equal opportunities, the concerned 
federal agency shall publish the following information to the public:  
A. A summary of all major decisions related to the approval of the partnership project and 
bidding procedures; and  
B. Project awarding decision.  
 
Article (28)  
 Project Company  
1. In order to implement the project, the partner may establish the project company in 
accordance with the laws in force in the State. The founding company shall comply with all 
the provisions of the partnership agreement, and it may not be replaced, sold,  or its 
ownership waived (directly or indirectly) or enter into a contract with a third party without 
the prior approval from the concerned federal agency and using the same mechanism by which the original partnership agreement was approved.  
2. Foreign inv estors from outside the State may own the entire project company in 
accordance with the commercial companies law in force in the State, unless stipulated otherwise by the bidding documents.  
  
Article (29)  
 Partnership Projects Information Centre  
The Ministry shall establish a data register for partnership projects and an evaluation system 
for existing and implemented partnership projects. The Ministry may, whenever it deems 
appropriate, publish useful information to the public on its website.  
  
Article (30)  
 Consultant Appointment  
1. The Ministry may appoint external consultants to provide assistance in the process of 
selecting, structuring, offering, evaluating and supervising partnership projects whenever 
necessary.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  19 
 2. The Ministry may direct the  concerned federal agency or the project team to appoint 
external consultants whenever it deems optimal use of external resources.  
  
Article (31)  
 Dispute Settlement  
The state courts shall be competent to consider disputes arising from the implementation o f 
the project agreement, and it may be agreed that disputes shall be settled through 
alternative dispute resolution methods applicable in the state, including mediation, 
arbitration, and resorting to an expert  
  
Article (32)  
 Amending, Renewing or E xtendin g Partnership Project Agreements  
1. The provisions of the agreements related to the partnership projects and concluded 
before the applicability hereof shall apply as well as the applicable laws.  
2. Such agreements and licences thereof, may not be amended, renewed, or extended except 
in accordance with the provisions of this law, the Partnership Projects Guide, and the Guides 
and forms issued by the Ministry.  
  
Article (33)  
 Repeals  
1. Any provision that violates or contradicts the provisions of this Law shall be abrogated.  
2. Cabinet Resolution No. (1/1) of 2017 on the Procedures Guide for Partnership Between Federal agencies and the Private Sector, and Cabinet Resolution No. (4/8) of 2019 on the 
Procedures Guide for Partnership Between Public and Private Se ctors in the UAE shall 
remain applicable, until the partnership projects guide is issued, insofar that it does not 
conflict with the provisions of this law  
3. The provisions of the federal legislation regulating procurement and warehouse 
management in the federal government shall not apply to partnership projects concluded in accordance with the provisions hereof.   
Federal Law No. ( 12) of 2023 on  Regulating the Federal Public -Private Partnerships (PPP)  20 
   
Article (34)  
 Law Publication and Enforcement  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force as of the day 
following the date of its publication.  
  
 
 
Signed  
Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of State of the United Arab Emirates  
 
Issued by Us at the Palace of the Presidency in Abu Dhabi:  
On: Jumada I 13, 1445 H  
Corresponding to: November 27, 2023  
 
 