 
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  1 
  Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned 
Properties  
 
We, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan,            President of the United Arab 
Emirates;  
− Upon reviewing the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 concerning the Competences of Min istries and Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (16) of 2018 concerning the Federal Government Union 
Owned Properties;  
− based on the presentation of the Minister of Finance, and the approval of the Cabinet;  
Have promulgated the follow ing Federal Decree by Law:  
  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In application of the provisions herein, the following words and expressions shall have the 
meanings ascribed thereto, unless the context otherwise requires:  
State : United Arab Emirates.  
Government : Federal Government of the State.  
Local Government : Government of any of the Emirates that are members of the 
Union.  
Cabinet : Cabinet of the State.  
Ministry : Ministry of Finance.  
Minister : Minister of Finance.  
Federal Agencies : 
 Means any of the followin g Federal Agencies:  
 1. Ministries and central bodies: The Ministries established  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  2 
 under Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 concerning the 
Competences of Ministries and the Powers of Ministers, as 
amended and the councils, bodies and the like that engaged in 
the l egislative and judicial and executive federal activities.  
 2. Independent Federal Agencies: The Federal Agencies that 
are either established or shall be established in accordance 
with the legislation in effect in the State, to perform specific 
public tasks  or services, and that operate under the 
supervision of the Government, which:  
 A. The independent legal personality and the capacity to act, 
prepare, organise and implement its special budget, is granted 
either by law or by the incorporation resolution.  
 B. Have a special administrative and organisational structure.  
 C. Non -Profit.  
 3. Government Companies: Establishments and companies 
owned, wholly or partially, (Subsidiaries) by the Federal 
Government or Federal Agencies.  
Union Owned 
Properties : Union O wned Properties described in article (4) and Clause 
(1) of article (15) herein.  
Property Assets 
Register : 
 A Register established by the Ministry that contains data on 
the Union Owned Properties, the transactions related to them, 
and other matters related  to them that this Decree by Law 
requires to be noted in the Register.  
Government Official : For the purposes herein, it includes:   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  3 
   1. Every person holding a government position in any Federal 
Agency.  
 2. A representative of the Federal Agency in any Subs idiary, 
including a member of the BOD representing the Federal 
Agency in that company.  
 3. Public employee, or person charged with a public service.  
Union Owned 
Properties allocated 
to serve a Public 
Facility : Any of the assets listed in Clause (1) of Art icle (4) herein.  
 
Union Non -Owned  
Properties : Any of the assets listed in Clause (2) of article (4) herein.  
 
Private Union 
Owned Properties : Any of the assets listed in Clause (3) of article (4) herein.  
Private Union 
Non -Owned 
Properties : 
 Union Owned P roperties described in Clause (4) of article (4) 
herein.  
Subsidiary : 
 A company in which any Federal Agency owns shares not less 
than (51%) of its capital.  
Person : 
 The natural person and the private legal person that is not 
considered a Federal Agency.  
Act: 
 Creating a real or personal right over any of the Union Owned 
Properties.  
   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  4 
  
Article (2) 
 Scope of Application of the Decree by Law  
Subject to the text of article (3) herein, this Decree by Law shall apply to Union Owned 
Properties inside the State  or abroad.  
  
Article (3)  
Property and Rights to which the provisions herein do not apply  
The provisions of Articles (9) to (43) herein do not apply to:  
1. Union Owned Properties allocated for the use and exploitation of the Armed Forces and Federal Security  Agencies in the State.  
2. Union Owned Properties that is organised, managed or disposed of by a special law to the extent that its provisions conflict with any provision herein.  
3. The rights specified in Clause (5) of article (4) herein.  
4. Union Owned Properties  that are excluded by a resolution of the Cabinet.  
  
Article (4) 
 Union Owned Properties  
The following assets shall be deemed as Union Owned Properties:  
1. Union Owned Properties that are actually allocated to serve a Public Facility or based on 
a resolution of the Cabinet or based on a law, including:  
a. Vacant lands and buildings that were previously granted or granted by a Local Gov-
ernment to the Government or any Federal Agency for the purpose of constructing 
administrative buildings or other Public Facilitie s or for the purpose of managing or  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  5 
 operating them, which were owned or are being owned in accordance with the local 
legislation in force in the Relevant Emirate.  
b. Vacant lands and buildings located outside the State and granted to the Government or any Fed eral Agency, without prejudice to the provisions of article (22) herein.  
c. Properties and buildings that are owned by the Government or whose ownership 
devolves to the Government or any of the Federal Agencies inside the State or abroad, or that are built on  previously granted lands or lands that are granted by a 
Local Government to the Government or any Federal Agency, which are, directly or 
indirectly, used to establish, manage, or operate a Public Facility.  
d. Properties and buildings owned by the Government that are assigned, with or with-
out compensation, by any natural or legal person in favour of any Federal Agency, 
which are, directly or indirectly, used to establish, manage, or operate a Public Facili-
ty. 
e. All facilities owned by a Federal Agency and allocated for public use, such as roads, railways, federal bridges, and any other similar assets.  
f. Properties by allocation owned by a Federal Agency and allocated to own, establish, 
manage, or service any Public Facility, including stations, lines, and units for  the 
production, distribution, and transmission of energy, water, sewage, communica-
tions, mail, and lines and cables for the production, transmission, and distribution of 
any of these Public Facilities.  
2. Union Non -Owned Properties which are owned by the Gov ernment or a Federal Agency 
and used to serve any of the properties specified in Clause (1) of this Article.  
3. Private Union Owned Properties not allocated to serve a Public Facility, which include 
vacant lands, buildings, and property.  
4. Private Union Non- Own ed Properties owned by a Federal Agency that are not allocated  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  6 
 to serve a Public Facility, and include all types of movables, rights, cash funds, shares, 
stocks, bonds, commercial papers, and all other Non -Property Funds owned by a Federal 
Agency that are invested, reinvested, exploited, or used on a commercial basis, and the 
resulting investments.  
5. The accessory real rights assigned to any of the Union Owned Properties stipulated in Clauses (1) to (4) of this Article.  
6. The rights arising from any of the Unio n Owned Properties stipulated in Clauses (1) to 
(5) of this Article, including the distributable or non -distributable profits assigned to 
them.  
7. Assets stipulated in article (49) herein  
8. Any other material or moral rights, warranties or guarantees of economi c value legally 
established for any Federal Agency pursuant to a law.  
  
Article (5) 
 Protecting the Union Owned Properties  
Union Owned Properties are inviolable and shall be preserved. It may not be owned, gain 
any right over it, possess, occupy, benefit in any way, or dispose of it in any way except in 
accordance with the provisions of the law. It may not be seized or restrict its uses for any 
reason. Any action taken in violation of the foregoing shall be void. Any encroachment on 
Union Owned Properties s hall be removed in accordance with the provisions herein, 
without prejudice to the right of the Federal Agency to resort to the Judicial Authorities, if 
necessary.  
  
Article (6)   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  7 
 Reporting Violations which are related to Union Owned Properties  
1. The Governme nt Official shall prevent the abuse of Union Owned Properties and shall 
immediately inform the Competent Authorities with any proof of violations related to 
abuse, exploitation, or infringement in any way on Union Owned Properties.  
2. Any person may immediate ly inform the Competent Authorities of his knowledge of any 
behavior that violates the provisions herein.  
3. For the purposes of this Article, the Competent Authorities shall mean the Ministry or the 
Federal Authority supervising the Union Owned Properties or  its occupants, or the 
Security and Police Authorities according to the nature of the violation.  
  
Article (7) 
 Government Official Prohibited Actions  
The following actions shall be prohibited for Government Official:  
1. Misuse of his position or work to achieve a benefit for himself or for others, or exploiting 
his influence to facilitate for others to obtain any illegal benefit on any of the Union 
Owned Properties.  
2. Act as an broker, agent, or guarantor for any natural or legal person who contracts with 
the Agency where he works to carry out work or provide a service related in any way to 
the construction, maintenance, restoration, demolition, or contracting for the use or 
transfer of ownership of any of the Union Owned Properties.  
3. Use Union Owned Properties f or personal purposes or for purposes other than those 
intended, whether in their custody or someone else custody.  
4. Allow any person to use or exploit any of the Union Owned Properties or to occupy any 
part thereof except the cases permitted under any applic able legislation.   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  8 
   
Article (8) 
 Security and Police Authorities Tasks  
1. The State Security and Police Authorities – each within the limits of their jurisdictions –  
shall, upon learning of an attack on any of the Union Owned Properties, seizing it, or 
illegally exploiting it, or attempting any of that, take appropriate measures to prevent or 
stop this attack immediately, without the need to receive any complaint or obtain any 
permit or statement as long as the action takes place in a public place.  
2. The State S ecurity and Police Authorities –  each within their jurisdiction –  shall provide 
the necessary assistance to any party to protect the Union Owned Properties from any 
danger threatening its use in accordance with the purposes assigned to it, or from the dang er of sabotaging, misusing, or exploiting it in any way other than its intended 
purpose.  
  
Article (9)  
Disposal of the Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility  
Disposal of any of the Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility shall be invalid unless the disposal is in accordance with the provisions herein and in accordance 
with the relevant legislation in force.  
  
Article (10) 
 Granting Rights or Guarantees for the Union Owned Properties allocated to 
serve a Public Facility  
No easement rights or any accessory real right or any guarantees or warranties or any  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  9 
 personal right on any part of the Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility 
may be granted, except in accordance with the cases permitted under any in force legislation and pursuant to a resolution of the Cabinet.  
  
Article (11)  
Demolition of Buildings and Public Facilities  
1. Federal public buildings and facilities may not be demolished except after the approval 
of the Cabinet, and based on a proposal from the Minister in coordination with the Local 
Government.  
2. Demolition of public buildings and facilities shall be for one of the following reasons:  
a. Rebuilding.  
b. The end of its lifespan.  
c. It's destined to fall.  
d. Its conflict with the urban master plan.  
3. If the demolition is due to the reason stated in Paragraph (D) of Clause (2) of this Article, 
the Local Government shall compensate the Government financially or in kind if the urban master plan is Non- Federal in accordance with the provisions stipulated herein.  
 
 
Article (12)  
Licensing the Union Owned Properties Use or Exploitation  
Subject to Articles (5) and (10) herein, the Cabinet may authorise any person to use or exploit any part of the Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility, in 
impl ementation of the provisions of concession or partnership contracts between the public 
and private sectors, considering the following:  
1. This shall be in implementation of a law or a resolution of the Cabinet that authorises a  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  10 
 person to manage or operate any  Public Facility of the Government under concession or 
partnership contracts between the public and private sectors.  
2. This License shall be limited to a specific time period.  
3. The contract concluded with the person shall include a stipulation of his commitme nt to 
all provisions herein relating to the Union Owned Properties protection, maintenance 
and management.  
4. This License does not affect the level of performance of the Public Facility service 
prevailing before the issuance of the License . 
5. The beneficiary o f the License shall not be one of those working for the Federal Agency 
contracting with him or his relatives up to the fourth degree. The beneficiary shall not be 
a legal person who works for any of the aforementioned or has a share in his ownership. Share holders in public joint stock companies shall be excluded from this.  
6. Register any real rights arising from this License in the Property Registry with the 
Competent Local Authority in the Emirate where the Property is located.  
7. Use and exploitation shall not  conflict with the local legislation and laws of each Emirate, 
or with the interests of the Government, provided that coordination is provided between 
the Concerned Parties in this regard.  
  
Article (13) 
 The License Cancellation  
1. The Cabinet shall issue a resolution to cancel the License  issued to use or exploit any of 
the rights stipulated in article (12) herein, or to temporarily suspend its validity in any of 
the following cases:  
a. The Right Holder fails to comply with the laws or agreements regulating this right.  
b. The public interest requires it, or in response to an emergency or unforeseen  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  11 
 circumstances.  
2. The resolution, in the case stipulated in Paragraph (b) of Clause (1) of this Article, shall 
determine the amount of compensation – if applicable – decide d for the Right Holder, 
considering the remaining period of the right and the value of the assets invested by the 
Right Holder after deducting the value of their depreciation if the agreement between 
the Right Holder and the Government Agency with which the Right Holder contracted 
stipulated that these assets be returned to it at the end of the contract without 
compensation.  
  
Article (14)  
Loss of a Public Facility Status  
1. "Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility" may be converted into Private Union Owned Properties in any of the following cases:  
a. Expiry of the purpose of the Public Facility to which Union Owned Properties are allocated.  
b. Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility are unable to provide 
public service in view  of the period of its use, the deterioration of its condition, or its 
inability for any reason to efficiently provide this service.  
c. If the continued use of Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility 
constitutes a threat to public health, p ublic security, or public safety.  
d. The office of the Public Facility shall be replaced with a new office.  
2. The Cabinet, based on the recommendation of the Minister, shall issue a resolution to remove this status in accordance with the provisions of Clause (1 ) of this Article.  
3. The same resolution referred to in Clause (2) of this Article, or a subsequent resolution, 
shall determine how to exploit or dispose of Union Owned Properties that has ceased to  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  12 
 be a Public Facility.  
4. Coordination shall be made with the G overnment of the Relevant Emirate if the land on 
which the Property allocated to serve a Federal Public Facility is located is registered as 
grant land, before issuing the resolution referred to in Clause (2) of this Article.  
5. The description of the Union O wned Properties whose status has changed in accordance 
with the provisions of this Article shall be amended to "Private Union Owned Properties" 
by noting this in the Property Assets Register.  
  
Article (15) 
 Provisions concerning Private Union Owned Properties  
1. Private Union Owned Properties are all properties owned by any Federal Agency but not allocated to serve a Public Facility, including:  
a. Properties or Properties by allocation that are not used to serve a Public Facility starting from the date of their ownership.  
b. Properties whose status has ceased to be "allocated to serve a Public Facility" in 
accordance with the provisions of article (14) herein.  
c. Money that has disappeared or the public benefit allocated to it has ceased.  
d. Union Owned Properties which are used for investment, reinvestment, contribution 
or partnership in profitable economic projects.  
2. Private Union Owned Properties, in terms of its acquisition, exploitation and disposal, 
shall be subject to the provisions of its legislation, unless a special provision is provided 
herein or any other legislation regulating its protection, use, exploitation or disposal.  
3. By resolution of the Cabinet –  based on a proposal from the Minister – any of the Union 
Private Property or any of the rights assigned to it to any Federal Agency or Subsidiary 
may be assigned, free of charge,   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  13 
 4. By a resolution of the Cabinet – based on a proposal from the Minister – any 
guarantees, securities or rights on any of the Private Union Owned Properties as a 
guarantee or security for t he obligations of any Federal Agency or Subsidiary may be 
provided.  
5. The Head of the Federal Agency legally authorised to manage any of the Private Union 
Owned Properties may decide to lease it or to lease any of its units pursuant to a 
reasoned resolution,  provided that this shall consider the conditions stipulated in the 
regulations and resolutions regulating that in a manner that does not conflict with 
applicable local legislation.  
6. No sale of any of the Private Union Owned Properties may be made except by  a 
resolution of the Cabinet in accordance with the conditions stipulated in the regulations and resolutions regulating this.  
  
Article (16) 
 Federal Union Owned Properties Management  
For the purposes of implementing the provisions herein, the Ministry und ertakes the Federal 
Union Owned Properties Management and for this purpose it may : 
1. Establish manage, operate, maintain and update the Property Assets Register.  
2. Establish the necessary rules, guidelines and laws to maintain safe and efficient performance of  Union Owned Properties.  
3. Contribute to identifying, analysing and assessing the difficulties and risks that affect the 
performance or efficiency of Union Owned Properties and proposing appropriate 
solutions to resolve these difficulties or reduce these ris ks. 
4. Provide Coordination between the Relevant Federal Authority and the Competent  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  14 
 Authorities in any of the Emirates concerning the resolutions issued by the Government 
of any Emirate to grant, change, replace, or recover Government land or property to the  
Government, or arrange any rights over it, and contribute to the preparation of any 
documents or contracts related to that.  
5. Submit proposals and recommendations to the Relevant Federal Authority and the Competent Authorities in the Government in everythin g related to resolutions issued by 
foreign parties granting the Government land or property to be used for headquarters, 
embassies, consulates, and other diplomatic missions of the State abroad.  
6. Provide coordination with the Competent Authority in the Rele vant Emirate to 
implement the resolution of the Relevant Emirate to grant the Government any original 
or accessory property right over any property or replace it, including carrying out all procedures and implementing all requirements to receive and Regist er the Property or 
registering the Property right assigned to it in the name of the Government in the Property Assets Register and receive all Licenses , maps and shop drawings related to this 
property.  
7. Coordinate with the Federal Agency that operates, manages or supervises the 
management of any of the Union Owned Properties abroad to ensure that the 
Competent State shall issue documents and title deeds for these properties in the name 
of the Government and shall receive the original copies of these document s and bonds 
and maintain them in the Property Assets Register.  
8. Recommend the inclusion of any of the Union Owned Properties within the funds 
allocated to serve a Public Facility, or change the nature of its use, or cancel its facility 
status, and a resolut ion shall be issued by the Cabinet to that effect.  
9. Determine the market value of any of the Union Owned Properties or any of its rights 
that are intended to be disposed of to third parties, or arrange for any rights over them to  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  15 
 such third parties, or appr ove that value when it is determined by any other party.  
10. Determine the market value of any of the Union Owned Properties for any other 
purposes or approve that value.  
11. Express opinion on any project proposed by any Federal Agency to build, rebuild, 
expand, maintain, or demolish any of the Union Owned Properties, unless a special law 
requires that another Agency has jurisdiction to do so.  
12. Establish the rules and guidelines that Federal Agencies shall comply with in order to 
lease any property or use it for a fee.  
13. Establish the rules and guidelines that Federal Agencies shall comply with in order to occupy any space in any of the Union Owned Properties from any Non- Federal Agency, 
for or without compensation.  
  
Article (17)  
Powers to view information related to U nion Owned Properties  
The Ministry Competent Employees may view any files, information, data, or maps related 
to any of the Union Owned Properties, and obtain copies thereof for the purposes of 
exercising its jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of applicable legislation, unless 
those files, information, data, or maps include information that is confidential in nature. It requires authorisation from the authorised person to do so.  
  
Article (18) 
 Property Assets Register  
1. The Ministry shall create electronic platform called the "Property Assets Register" to 
Register Union Owned Properties, and each unit of Union Owned Properties shall have  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  16 
 its own register that shows the following:  
a. Its title deed.  
b. Its actual or estimated value when owned.  
c. Any legal or contractual restrictions or judicial rulings related to its use or benefit.  
d. Topographic data, plans, areas, location, boundaries of the Property and adjacent 
properties, number of floors and uses of each floor, if any.  
e. Any warranties prescribed in its f avour.  
f. The value of the expenses spent to acquire it, maintain it, rehabilitate it, or register it 
in the name of the Government.  
g. Any other data specified by the Ministry.  
2. The Federal Agency that operates, manages, or supervises the management of any of the Union Owned Properties shall register it in the Property Assets Register in accordance 
with the provisions herein and the resolutions issued in implementation thereof. It shall 
also update the Register for these properties whenever necessary.  
3. The Ministr y shall supervise the protection, maintenance and efficiency of the Property 
Assets Register.  
  
Article (19) 
 Classification of the Property Assets Register  
Land, space and buildings (Properties) for the purposes of their registration in the Property Asset s Register are divided into two categories:  
1. Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility.  
2. Private Union Owned Properties.  
   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  17 
 Article (20)  
Modifying data in the Property Assets Register  
If any legal facts or actions occur or any final judicial rulings, laws, decrees or final 
administrative resolutions are issued requiring the deletion, cancellation or amendment of any statement recorded in the Property Assets Register, the Federal Agency that operates, 
manages or supervises that property shall mark that in the data for this property.  
 
Article (21) 
 Recovered Properties 
1. In the event that the Emirate or its Local Government requests the recovery of any of the 
properties it granted to any of the Federal Authorities, the Ministry shall coordinate with 
the Emirate or Local Government to ensure that the recovery request is made in 
accordance with the following controls and conditions:  
a. The recovery shall be for the purposes of urban planning, the Emirate infrastructure, 
or any public benefit for the A gency requesting the recovery.  
b. The Emirate shall compensate the Government for the properties to be recovered with similar properties, or with financial compensation, or with both. The value of 
the compensation shall be determined in coordination with the Local Government.  
c. A resolution shall be issued by the Cabinet approving recovery and compensation.  
2. As an exception to Paragraph (B) of Clause (1) of this Article, the Emirate granting vacant land may recover it without compensation if it is not exploited b y the Agency to which it 
is granted, in coordination with the Ministry and the approval of the Cabinet.  
  
Article (22)   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  18 
 Union Owned Properties outside the State  
1. The provisions stipulated herein apply to any of the Union Owned Properties located 
outside the State to the extent that they do not conflict with the State contractual 
obligations with any foreign party, the treaties or agreements to which the State is a 
party, or with the laws of the State in which the Property is located.  
2. The Agency that operates,  manages, or supervises the management of any of the Union 
Owned Properties outside the State shall be the Agency responsible for implementing 
the provisions herein to the extent necessary to protect and care for these properties.  
 
Article (23)  
Obligati ons of the Federal Authorities that occupy any of the Union Owned  
Properties  
1. In addition to the obligations stipulated herein, every Federal Agency that occupies, 
manages, or supervises the management of any of the Union Owned Properties shall 
comply, as f ollows:  
a. Provide a report showing the legal and surveying status of that property, estimating 
its value, and indicating its architectural and constructional condition, along with 
attaching its construction plan and any data or any facts, documents or papers  
related in any way to the sources of its ownership or occupancy, within a period not exceeding (6) six months from the effective date herein. His authority shall provide 
the Ministry with a copy of this report immediately upon completion of its 
preparatio n, and it shall renew this data and provide the Ministry with a copy of it 
whenever necessary.  
b. Take appropriate actions to create an archive, updated whenever necessary, that 
classifies all data and information referred to in Paragraph (A) of Clause (1) of  this  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  19 
 Article.  
c. Carry out maintenance and preservation of the Property and restoring, repairing and 
replacing any of its damaged parts or facilities, unless otherwise stipulated in the law.  
d. Provide insurance to the Property against fire risks by contracting  with one of the 
insurance companies operating in the State.  
e. Inform the Ministry Immediately of any actions or behaviours or threats that constitute a violation of any of the provisions stipulated herein.  
f. Provide all forms of assistance and support to the Ministry in order to enable it to 
carry out its duties in accordance with the provisions herein.  
g. Inform the Ministry Immediately of any unauthorised use of any part of the Property occupy, and provide the Ministry with all relevant information.  
h. Provide any  information or data requested by the Ministry concerning the condition 
of the Property, its suitability for use, the necessary maintenance for it, and any information, data, statistics or maps in order to enable the Ministry to carry out its 
tasks specifi ed herein.  
2. The Federal Agency that operates any of the Union Owned Properties shall include 
within its annual budget the amounts necessary to implement the obligations stipulated 
in Clause (1) of this Article.  
3. The Federal Agency that receives any of the Union Owned Properties for use, 
exploitation, management, or supervision of its management shall, in the procedures for 
receipt or management, consider the provisions stipulated in the Guide stipulated in 
article (25) herein.  
  
Article (24) 
 Controls for Priv ate Property Lease   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  20 
 1. The Ministry shall issue a Guide that includes procedures and controls for leasing Private 
Property by any Federal Agency.  
2. The Guide stipulated in Clause (1) of this Article shall include the conditions for 
requesting to lease a property , the procedures for selecting the appropriate property, 
indicating the reasons for this selection, the procedures for signing the lease contract, 
evaluating the lease value, and the lease contract form.  
  
Article (25) 
 Controls and Requirements for Union Owned Properties Use and 
Exploitation  
The Ministry shall issue one or more Guides clarifying the controls and requirements for the use or exploitation of any of the Union Owned Properties, including its occupancy times, 
occupancy density, and other specifications and requirements that achieve efficiency, security, safety, health, and cleanliness.  
  
Article (26)  
Compliance with the Rules and Regulations of City Planning and 
Construction  
When determining the uses or exploitation of any of the Union Owned Pro perties, the city 
planning and building rules and regulations applicable in the area in which the Property is 
located shall be considered.  
  
Article (27) 
 The Property Optimal Use   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  21 
 The Federal Agency that occupies the Property may determine its occupancy and divide it 
into units, offices, or sections as appropriate for its purposes, all of this considering the evidence stipulated in article (25) herein.  
  
Article (28)  
Informing the Ministry of the Property Aspects of Exploitation  
The Federal Agency that occ upies for the first time any of the Union Owned Properties shall 
notify the Ministry of the aspects of exploitation of its approved areas, indicating this on an illustrative plan, within a period not exceeding (3) three months from the date of its 
occupancy.  
  
Article (29)  
The Ministry being Informed of the need for Excess Property Space  
1. If it becomes clear to the Federal Agency that occupies the Property that a space of the Property is in excess of its need in accordance with the usage controls referred t o in 
article (25) herein by more than (20%) of the total area of the Property intended for occupancy, it shall provide a report on this and send it to the Ministry. The report shall 
include the opinion of the party occupying the Property concerning the pos sibility of its 
need for this space within a period not exceeding one year from the date of its 
occupancy of the Property.  
2. The Ministry shall issue a resolution concerning how to exploit the unused space in a 
way that reduces the resulting waste as much as  possible.  
  
Article (30)   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  22 
 Controls for the Exploitation of Area of Property occupied by a Federal 
Agency  
The Federal Agency may contract with any private company or office to exploit places or 
spaces in the Property it occupies to provide any services that help it achieve its objectives, provided that:  
1. This shall be necessary to enable the Contracting Party to perform its duties.  
2. It shall stipulate the aspects and conditions of occupancy and the right of the Federal 
Agency to suspend or terminate that occu pancy if the occupant violates these conditions 
in the concluded contract.  
3. The Contracting Party shall comply with the safety, health and hygiene aspects specified 
in the Guide stipulated in article (25) herein.  
4. The Contracting Agency shall vacate the spac e it occupies within the period specified in 
the notice sent by the Relevant Ministry or Federal Agency to this Contracting Agency.  
  
Article (31) 
 Lease of Space of Property occupied by Federal Agency  
The Concerned Federal Agency that occupies any of the Union Owned Properties allocated to serve a Public Facility may lease some vacant spaces in the Property to any person to 
provide an administrative service, public relations, or provide food and light beverages, 
considering the following:  
1. The lease shall b e in accordance with the provisions of planning, determining prices, and 
procedures for leasing Union Owned Properties, which are determined by a resolution 
of the Cabinet.  
2. This does not affect the optimal use of the areas approved by that Agency in accord ance  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  23 
 with the provisions of article (28) herein.  
3. The Federal Agency shall sign a "Space Lease Contract" with the person leasing according 
to the form prepared by the Ministry for this purpose.  
4. The person shall comply with the safety, health and hygiene asp ects specified in the 
Guide stipulated in article (25) of this Decree of Law.  
5. The Leasing Agency shall vacate the space it occupies within the period specified in the notice sent by the Relevant Ministry or Federal Agency to this Leasing Agency.  
  
Article (32) 
 Residence in Union Owned Properties  
No person may reside, permanently or temporarily, or exploit any of the Union Owned Properties or any part thereof, or those allocated to serve a Public Facility, or any part thereof 
for sleeping or temporary housing, except in the following cases:  
1. The Property shall include a part allocated for the residence of employee crews, workers, or operators of that Public Facility, or if the Property is allocated for the residence of any 
employee of any Federal Agency, whet her in the State or abroad.  
2. The Property has a specific space allocated for rest or temporary sleep for the alternates 
who serve the Public Facility.  
3. In emergencies, such as floods and natural or environmental disasters declared by the Concerned Authoritie s. 
  
Article (33) 
 Union Owned Properties Exploitation and Illegal Use  
1. No person may occupy, possess, use or exploit any of the Union Owned Properties in the  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  24 
 following cases:  
a. Occupation, possession, use or exploitation is Illegal.  
b. After the expiration of t he period specified by the Federal Authority for use or 
exploitation, unless obtaining permit to extend that period.  
c. If the use or exploitation violates the aspects of use or exploitation specified in the 
granted License Document or in the signed agreement . 
d. Not fulfilling any of essential obligations specified in the granted License or in the 
agreement signed. The breach of obligation is considered fundamental if the use or 
exploitation of any property or any of the machinery, equipment or other facilities 
built on it or attached to it is in a way that exposes it to destruction, damage or 
demolition or conflicts with the essential requirements and conditions of public health, public safety or public security.  
2. If it becomes clear to it that a person has committed any of the acts described in Clause (1) of this Article, the Ministry or Federal Agency that occupies the Property shall notify 
that person in writing of the occurrence of the violation and request to hand over the 
Property to the Ministry or the Fede ral Agency within the specified period in the notice.  
3. The Violator may file a appeal in writing to the Ministry in respect of the violation within (5) five working days from the date of his receipt of the notice stipulated in Clause (2) of 
this Article, an d to attach with the appeal any documents proving that he did not commit 
the violation.  
4. If the Violator, after being informed in writing, does not submit the appeal or hand over 
the Property within the period specified, the Head of the Federal Agency may issue a 
resolution to vacate the Property. This resolution shall be implemented through the 
Enforcement Departments of the Competent Court.  
   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  25 
 Article (34) 
 Union Owned Properties Appeal Committee 
1. The Minister shall issue a resolution to form a Committee called the "Union Owned 
Properties Appeal Committee." The same resolution shall determine the number of its members, the procedures for convening it, filing appeals before it, and the mechanism 
for making its resolutions.  
2. The Union Owned Properties Appeal Com mittee shall consider the appeals submitted to 
the Ministry by the Violator against whom a notice has been issued by the Ministry or 
the Federal Agency to hand over or vacate the Union Owned Properties.  
3. If the Committee finds out that the Complainant has f allen into one of the cases specified 
in Paragraphs (A) to (D) of Clause (1) of article (33) herein, it shall submit its 
recommendation to the Ministry or the Concerned Federal Agency concerning the 
violation to issue vacation order immediately in accordan ce with Clause (4) of Article 
(33) herein.  
4. The resolutions of the Committee issued concerning the appeal shall be final.  
  
Article (35) 
 Vacation Order  
The vacation order referred to in article (33) herein shall include the following:  
1. The reasons for makin g the resolution, including the legal or contractual provisions on 
which the resolution was based.  
2. The name and address of the person against whom the resolution was made.  
3. Data of the Property scheduled to be vacated.  
4. Inform the person that the resolution will be implemented through the Enforcement  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  26 
 Departments of the Competent Court if he does not implement it voluntarily within the 
period specified in the resolution.  
5. Hold the person responsible for paying all expenses necessary to implement the 
resolution and the value of the damages, if any.  
  
Article (36) 
 Considering the Vacation Order as Enforcement Department  
The vacation order issued in accordance with the provisions herein is considered 
Enforcement Bond and the Competent Authorities shall take action  to implement this bond 
and take its necessary measures. The Competent Authorities shall assist in its implementation, even by force, whenever they are requested to do so.  
  
Article (37) 
 The Cost incurred in implementing the Administrative order of Vacation  
The person against whom vacation order is issued shall bear the cost incurred by the Ministry to implement the vacation order and the value of the damages it caused. The value 
of the cost referred to shall be collected pursuant to order submitted to the  Competent 
Court.  
  
Article (38) 
 The Decree by Law applies to the Union Non -Owned Properties  
The provisions herein apply to the Union Non -Owned Properties unless there is a special 
provision in their regard.  
   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  27 
 Article (39)  
Disposal of the Union Non -Owned  Properties  
The purchase, supply, inventory, storage, disbursement, depreciation and sale of the Union 
Non -Owned Properties shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the 
legislation in force in this regard.  
  
Article (40)  
Guide to Use Mate rials, Papers and Stationery 
The Ministry shall issue a Guide for the efficient and sustainable use of materials, papers, 
and stationery allocated for use in Federal Agencies. The Head of each Federal Agency or his 
authorised representative shall issue res olutions ensuring the implementation of this Guide, 
including appropriate procedures when violating the provisions contained in the Guide or in the resolutions he issues in implementation thereof.  
  
Article (41)  
Transferring the Union Non- Owned Properties  between the Federal 
Agencies  
The Union Non -Owned Properties may be transferred between Federal Agencies without 
compensation, provided that this transfer takes place in accordance with the legislation in force in this regard.  
  
Article (42) 
 Purchasing Va cant Lands or Buildings and Annexing them to Union Owned 
Properties   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  28 
 Any vacant lands or buildings shall be purchased for the purpose of annexing them to Union 
Owned Properties in accordance with the provisions determined by a resolution of the Cabinet.  
  
Article (43)  
Arrangement of Rights over the Property 
1. If the implementation of any project to establish any Public Facility requires arranging 
any original or accessory right in rem over any property owned by a Non- Federal 
Agency, the Federal Agency in char ge of implementing the project or supervising its 
implementation shall comply as follows:  
a. Submit a memorandum to the Ministry explaining the reasons for arranging this 
right, its estimated cost, the boundaries and dimensions of the Property on which 
this r ight is requested to be arranged, and the Ministry views and recommendations 
in this regard.  
b. Submit a memorandum to the Cabinet containing its requests and the Ministry 
recommendation.  
2. Subject to the provisions of article (42) herein, if the Cabinet shall approve the purchase, the Relevant Federal Authority shall contract with the seller on behalf of the 
Government after ensure that the Property is competent to fulfil the purpose intended 
for it and that it is free of any claims, allegations or judicial dis putes. It is free of any legal 
restrictions or agreements that limit its use.  
3. If the purchase process is completed, and the purchased property is a Property, the 
Relevant Federal Authority shall register it in the Property Assets Register.  
   
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  29 
 Article (44)  
Penalties  
The imposition of the penalties stipulated in this Law shall be without prejudice to any more 
severe penalty stipulated in any other Federal Law.  
  
Article (45) 
Any person who does not preserve the Union Owned Properties and its inviolability, ow n it, 
or gain any right over it, Or possessed, occupied, or benefited from it in any way, or disposed of it in any manner in violation of the provisions of the law shall be punished by 
imprisonment for a period of no less than (6) six months and not exceed ing (2) two years, 
and a fine not exceeding (500,000) five hundred thousand dirhams, or one of these two 
penalties.  
  
Article (46) 
Any Government Official who does not prevent the misuse of Union Owned Properties and 
does not immediately inform the Compete nt Authorities of any violations proven to him 
related to misuse, exploitation, or infringement in any way on Union Owned Properties shall be punished by imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year and a fine not less than 
(50,000) fifty thousand dirh ams, or by one of these two penalties.  
  
Article (47) 
Any Government Official who exploits his position or work to achieve a benefit for himself 
or for others, or exploits his influence to facilitate the Obtaining any illegal benefit on any of 
the Union Ow ned Properties, shall be punished by imprisonment for a period not less than  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  30 
 one year and not exceeding (3) three years and a fine not less than (100,000) one hundred 
thousand dirhams, or by one of these two penalties.  
  
Article (48) 
Any Government Official who commits the following shall be punished by imprisonment for 
a period not exceeding one year and a fine of not less than (200,000) two hundred thousand 
dirhams, or by one of these two penalties:  
1. Act as broker, agent, or sponsor for any natural or legal person who contracts with the Federal Agency where he works. Carry out work or provide a service related in any way 
to the construction, maintenance, restoration, demolition, or contracting for the use or 
transfer of ownership of any of the Union Owned P roperties.  
2. Use Union Owned Properties for personal purposes or for purposes other than those 
intended for it, whether in his custody or in the custody of someone else.  
3. Allow any person to use or exploit any of the Union Owned Properties or to occupy any part thereof except in accordance with the cases permitted under any applicable 
legislation.  
  
Article (49)  
Final provisions  
The provisions herein apply to any Property or Non- Property assets that are not owned by 
the Government or a Federal Agency, and the  law or provision requires their confiscation or 
the jurisdiction or assignment of any Federal Agency to manage, supervise their 
management, direct, maintain, guard, or preserve any of the resources affiliated with them 
or store them, including endowments,  trust funds, and seized or seized funds as long as they  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  31 
 are in the possession or under the management or supervision of any Federal Agency for 
any reason.  
  
Article (50) 
The Cabinet has the power, based on the Minister recommendation, to approve the 
follo wing:  
1. Excluding any of the Union Owned Properties from applying some or all of the provisions herein to them.  
2. Selling, mortgaging, or reclaiming Union Owned Properties and any actions transferring their ownership.  
3. Procedures for settling any disputes – if any – related to the compensation required 
from the Local Government for Union Owned Properties to be recovered.  
4. Any powers and competencies related to Union Owned Properties.  
The Cabinet may authorise any Ministry or Federal Agency to exercise all or some  of the 
powers assigned to it herein.  
  
Article (51)  
Procedures for Coordination, Management and Disposal of Union Owned 
Properties  
The following procedures shall be determined by a resolution of the Minister:  
1. Coordination procedures between the Federal G overnment and the Local Government 
concerning:  
a. Union Owned Properties to be recovered.  
b. Local Property whose costs are borne by the Federal Government and which are  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  32 
 proposed to be returned to the Local Government.  
2. Procedures for managing and leasing Union O wned Properties and mechanisms for 
disposing of it in accordance with the provisions herein.  
  
Article (52)  
Documenting Legal Transactions on Union Owned Properties 
Without prejudice to the provisions contained herein, the legal transactions relating to t he 
Union Owned Properties shall be documented in accordance with the provisions of the local 
legislation in force in the Relevant Emirate in which the Property is located.  
  
Article (53)  
Decree by Law Enforcement  
The Cabinet shall issue the resolutions re quired for enforcing the provisions of this Decree 
by Law.  
  
Article (54)  
Continuation of Implementation of Previous Regulations until the Issuance 
of the Decree by Law  
The resolutions currently in effect concerning the Union Owned Properties shall continue to be implemented in a manner that does not conflict with the provisions herein until the 
resolutions that replace them are issued to implement the provisions herein.  
  
Article (55) Repeals  
Federal Decree by Law No. (16) of 2018 concerning Properties of the Fede ral Government  
Federal Decree by Law No. (35) of 2023 concerning the Union Owned Properties  33 
 shall be repealed, as is every legislation or ruling that violates or conflicts with the provisions 
herein.  
  
Article (56)  
Publication and Entry Into Force of Decree by Law  
This Decree by Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force after (6) six months from the date of its publication.  
  
 
Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi:  
On: 13 Rabi' I 1445 H  
Corresponding to: September 28,  2023 . 