Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (28) of 2023  
on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law No. (46) of 2021  
on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  
 
The Cabinet,  
Having reviewed:  
− The Constitution;  
− Federal Decree -Law No. (1) of 1972, on the Competences  of Ministries and the 
Powers of Ministers, as amended;  
− Feder al Decree -Law No. (14) of 2021, Establishing  the Federal Authority for Identity, 
Citizenship, Customs and Port Security ;  
− Federal Decree -Law No. (45) of 2021, on the Protection of Personal Data ;  
− Federal Decree -Law No. (46) of 2021, on Electronic Transactions and Trus t Services;  
− Feder al Decree -Law No. (42) of 2022 , Enacting the Civil Procedure  Code ; and  
− Based on the Proposa l submitted by th e Board Chairman of the Tel ecommunications 
and Digital Government Regulatory Authority , and the Cabinet approval thereof,   
Hereby  resolves as follows:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
The definitions set forth in Federal Decree -Law No. (46) of  2021, referred to hereinabove, 
shall be  applied to this Resolution;  otherwise, the following words and expressions shall 
bear the meanings assigned thereto respectively, unless the context requires otherwise :  
Decree -Law  
 
 : Federal Decree -Law No. (46) of 2021, on Electronic 
Transactions and Trust Services . Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  2 
 Competent 
Authority  : The authority that issues the Trade License.  
Termination Plan  : A document that sets out the procedures related to the 
Licensee’s plan and preparedness to terminate the  services 
outlined in the License, pursuant to the Decree -Law and this 
Resolution and the resolutions issued by the TDRA in 
implementation of both of which, and the requirements of the 
Competent Authorities.  
Service Practice 
Statement   : A statement of p ractices used by the Trust Service Provider and 
the Qualified Trust Service Provider in the management and 
operation of services.  
Service Policy  : A specific set of rules setting out policies, procedures, technical 
data, roles and responsibilities related to the management and 
operation of Trust Services and Qualified Trust Services.  
Subscriber  : A Person that enters into a contract with the Trust  Service 
Provider or with the Qualified Trust Service Provider to benefit 
from Trust Services or Qualified Trust Services provided by 
such provider.  
Status of 
Qualified Service 
Provider  : The status granted or withdrawn by the TDRA, as per the term 
of qu alification and as listed in the UAE Trust List, which 
confirms that the Qualified Trust Service Provider that provides 
such service is qualified for providing the same.  
Encryption  : A process intended to protect the confidentiality of data and 
information by converting data from a readable and  
understandable format into a non -understandable format in 
the form of codes, characters and figures.    
  
  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  3 
 Article (2)  
License Application  
1. The TDRA shall publish necessary information  on all procedures, application form s 
and infor mation requ ired for the License purposes , on the website o f the TDRA or by 
any means it deems appropriate.  
2. The License application shall include all information required by the TDRA , and such 
information shall b e provided by methods and means determined by the TDRA.  
3. The License applicant shall abide by all procedures and shall use application forms 
determined by the TDRA.  
4. The TDRA shall determine documents and data to be incl uded in the Li cense 
application, including  the following documents and data:  
a. A copy of the License issue d by the Competent Authority or other documents 
that authorize  the Licensee to carry out the business activities in the State;  
b. Description of com mercial activities unrelated to Trust Services and Qualified 
Trust Services authorized to be practiced by the License applicant;  
c. Details of the License applicant’ s business office in the State;  
d. A copy of the License applicant’s action plan showing the na ture and strategy  
of business, objectives, mar keting plans and the service provision plan;  
e. Type  of the trade license  and partners' equity interests , if any, and the License 
applicant’s organizational structure ;  
f. Details of institutional and operational capa cities of the License applicant;  
g. A report on the Compliance A ssessment  for a period not exceeding one month;  
h. A copy of the documents submi tted during the process of the Compliance 
Assessment  referred to in Subclause (g) above;  
i. A service Termination Plan, pursuant to the provisions of article (18) 
hereunder;  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  4 
 j. A financial report for the last fiscal year to be drawn up by an auditor 
accredited in the State, confirming the availability of financial resources 
equivalent to (AED 5,000,000) five million dirha ms;  
k. Providing a bank guarantee  or security as identified by the TDRA, and which  
shall  be automatically r enewed upon the license renewal; and  
l. A proof of  payment of the License application fees , as per the means set by the 
TDRA.  
 
Article (3)  
License Application  Examination Procedures   
1. The TDRA shall complete and examine the L icense application and shall verify the 
information and documents submitted, within a month following the completion date 
of the application . In cases that require more time for review and verification , the 
License applicant shall be notified of the further updated period . 
2. In the event of any justifiable alterations of the data  or documents submitted in the 
License application, or where t he Li cense applicant desires to cancel the License 
application, the  latter shall so notify the TDRA  and shall bear the relevant fees  and 
costs.  
3. The TDRA may relieve the License applicant from certain licensing requirements set 
out in this Resolution and the resolutions issued by the TDRA.  
 
Article (4)  
TDRA  Decision After the License Application  Examination  
1. The TDRA shall issue its decision  after reviewing and examining the License 
application  as follows:  
a. Approving  the License application for providing Trust Services  or specific 
Qualified  Trust Services if the TDRA is convinced that the License applicant has 
fulfilled the requirements  set forth in the Decree -Law and this Resolution and Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  5 
 the resolutions issued by the TDRA in implementation of both of which , and 
the requirements of the Competent Authorities.  
b. Rejecting  the License application for providing Trust Services or sp ecific 
Qualified Trust Services if the TDRA is convinced that the License applicant has  
not fulfilled the requirements set forth in the Decree -Law and this Resolution 
and the resolutions issued by the TDRA in implementation of both of which , 
and the requir ements of the Competent Authorities.  
2. Where the TDRA appr oves the License application for providing Trust Services or 
Qualified  Trust Services set out in the application:  
a. The TDRA shall issue a L icense authorizing  the applicant to provide the 
approved Trust Services or Qualified Trust Services subject to payment of the 
License issuance fees; and  
b. The TDRA shall update the UAE Trust List according to the Licens e decision on 
the basis of each Trust Ser vice or Qualified Trust Service  set out in the License.  
3. If the License  application for providing Qualified Trust Services set out in the 
applicatio n is approved , the TDRA shall grant the License applicant a License 
authorizing the same to provide such services, s hall grant the License applicant the 
Status  of Qualified  Service Provider, and shall update the UAE Trust List accordingly  
on the basis of each Qualified Trust Service set out in the License.  
 
Article (5)  
Power to Issue the License  
The TDRA shall issue the License  decision following the approval of the Chairman or his 
delegate.  
Article (6)  
Term of the License  
The term of the License shall be two years, comm encing from the date of issuing the 
License.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  6 
 Article (7)  
License Renewal Application  
1. At least (3) mo nths prior to the expiry of the License  term, the Licensee shall fulfill  all 
requirements for the License renewal, subject to the following:  
a. The License renewal application shall include all det ails and documents 
mentioned in Clause (4) of article (2) above, along with any other details or 
documents identified by the TDRA.  
b. The License renewal appli cation shall include a proof of payment of the 
License renewal application fees, as per the method and means determined by 
the TDRA.  
 
Article (8)  
Failure to  Timely Renew the  License   
A Licensee , whose License term expires without getting the License renewed (30) thirty 
days prior to the License expiry date , shall be deemed in breach, and shall be sanctioned 
according to the administrative sanctions applicable in that respect.  
 
Article (9)  
License Renewal Application  Examination  Procedures    
The TDRA shall review and verify the data and documents submitted within the License 
renewal application, as per the procedures set out in article (3) above.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  7 
 Article (10)  
Decision on License Renewal   
The TDRA shall issue its decision after reviewing and examining the License renewal 
application as follows:  
1. Approving the License renewal application if the TDRA is convinced that the License 
renewal applicant has fulfilled the requirements set forth in the Decree -Law and this 
Resolution and the resolutions issued by the TDRA in implementation of both of 
which , and the requirements of the Competent Authorities, and , accordingly , the 
TDRA shall:  
a. Issue  a License authorizing the applicant to provide the approved Trust 
Services or Qualified Trust Services after paying the License issuance fees; and  
b. Update the UAE Trust List according to the License decision on the basis of 
each Trust Se rvice or Qualified Trust Service  set out in the License application.   
2. Rejecting  the License renewal  application  where  the TDRA is convinced that the 
License renewal applicant has not fulfilled the requirements set forth in the Decree -
Law and this Resoluti on and the resolutions issued by the TDRA in implementation of 
both of which , and the requirements of the Competent Authorities,  as the case may 
be. In this case, TDRA may take any of the following actions:  
a. To set a time limit to address the non -compliance, then the rejection decision  
shall be reconsidered or finally approved; or  
b. To apply the administrative sanctions applicable i n this regard.   
 
Article (11)  
Grievance  Against TDRA’s Decision  
The  License  applicant  or the License renewal applicant whos e application is rejected may 
submit a new application, as per the procedures applicable thereto, or file a grievance 
within (14) days against the TDRA’s rejection decision.    
 Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  8 
 Article (12)  
Suspension or Revocation of the License  
1. If the License of Trust Service Providers or Qualified Trust Service Provider s is 
suspended , the L icensee shall promptly cease to list any new Subscribers to services 
set out in the License, and shall keep providing the services to Subscribers existing 
before the effective date of the suspension decision.  
2. If the License of Trust Service Providers or Qualified Trust Service Provider s is revoked , 
such provi der shall be served with a notice to activate the Termination Plan  for all  or 
any of the services set out  in the License,  along with  adjusting the UAE Trust List when 
completing the implementation  of the Termination Plan.  
3. If a Qualified Service Pro vider’s License is revoked, the Status of Qualified  Service 
Provider for delicensed services shall be withdrawn.   
4. In all cases, upon the expir y or revocation of the License  term , the Licensee may 
directly suspend Trust Servi ces or Qualified Trust Services only acc ording to the 
procedures set by the TDRA , and the Licensee shall be exempted from the obligat ions 
set out in the Decree -Law and this Resolution and the resolutions issued by the TDRA 
in implementation of both of which , and the requirements of the Competent 
Authorities , as the case may be, only af ter obtaining the prior approval of the TDRA.  
5. The application of the procedures set out in this Article shall not preclude the 
application of the administrative sanctions or the penalties set forth in the Decree -
Law.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  9 
 Article (13)  
Cases of Amendment to the License  
1. The Licensee shall  notify the TDRA within one week in case of any amendments to  or 
changes in the information submitted in the  License or renewal application or the 
documents submitted for obtaining the compliance report.  
2. The L icensee shall be required to obtain the prior approval of the TDRA in cases of 
adjustment or change of data an d information that had been provided to  TDRA , as 
determined by the TDRA, including the following data and information:  
a. Details of the e stablishment and ownership and the business office of the Licensee 
in the State;  
b. Technical, administrative and financial capacity for the management  and 
operation of the services set out in the License;  
c. Any  change in the procedures of verifying the identity of Trust Services or 
Qualified Trust Services applicants and Subscribers;  
d. Any  change to information systems of Trust Services or Qualified Trust Services; 
and  
e. Any amendments to the Termination Plan.  
3. Changes  introduced to the License, Trust Services, Qualified Trust Services or the 
Status  of Qualified Service Prov ider shall be listed in the UAE Trust List on a regular 
basis if the same is required by the  change,  at the discretion of the TDRA.  
4. The TDRA  shal l identify means for su bmitting and processing amendment 
applications under  resolutions issued by the TDRA.  
 
Article (14)  
Costs of License Suspension or Revocation  
The  License renewal applicant or  the Licensee , whose Status of Qualified Service Provider 
is withdrawn or whose  License is suspended or revoked, shall bear all expenses related to 
the Compliance Assessment reports.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  10 
 Article (15)  
Obligations of the Licensee  
The Licensee shall satisfy the following  requirements :   
1. Details and documents submitted by  the Licensee to the TDRA must be up -to-date 
and accurat e throughout the License period.   
2. Acting in a fair and impartial  way in respect of all its activities, transactions a nd service 
offer and marketing, without causing monopoly or an impact on the sector 
competi tiveness  or S ubscribers, including the Licensee’ s obligation not to publish 
inco rrect or inaccurate information or preclude the mechanisms of executing the 
Decree -Law, the present Resolution,  resolutions issued by the TDRA  in pursuance of  
the Decree -Law and the present Resolution and the requirement s of the Competent 
Authorities.  
3. Assuming the liability  for damage deliberately or negligently afflicting any Person  due 
to the Licensee’s failure to fulfil  the obligations prescribed under the Decree -Law and 
this Resolution and the resolutions issued by the TDRA in implementation of both of 
which  and the requirement s of the Competent Authorities.  
4. Informing Subscribers of Trust Services  or Qualified Trust Services provided by the 
Licensee of a ny restrictions on the use of such services before such services are 
provided to Subscribers, and that the Licensee will not assum e any liability for damage 
caused by using such services should such  restrictions be byp assed.  
5. Adopting  adequate  polici es relied on the assessment of risks threatening the services 
provided by the Li censee, along with taking adequate  necessary technical and 
organizational  measures for the management of legal, administrative, security and 
operational risks and other direct and indirect risks, without  being prejudicial to 
security  and reliability levels and to the extent of being  adequate to the degree of 
severi ty. In partic ular, due diligence and necessary measures  shall be taken for:  
a. Procedures  of registration and  verification of Subscribers and activation of 
services to them;  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  11 
 b. Procedural and sanction controls;  
c. Management and  implementation of services;  
d. Preventing and minimizing the impact of securi ty incidents and informing the 
Competent A uthorities, as the case may be, Subscribers and qualified entities  
of the negative impacts of any of such incidents if occurred; and   
e. Ensuring  the protection of cybersecurity of information systems of the 
Licensee, as per the approved cybersecurity  policies.  
6. Taking all necessary technical and organizational measures to comp ly with the federal 
laws and regulations governing the protectio n of data or personal data, so as to ensure 
the prot ection and preservation of the Subscriber's personal data and prevent any 
accessibility  to and disclosur e of such data without obtaining the Subscriber’s  consent 
and within the limits nece ssary to provid e the service to the same.  
7. Promptly notifying  the TDRA and the Subscribers in the following cases:  
a. Exposure of the Licensee’s information systems to any risk affecting the 
integrity and safety of the services provided;  
b. Exposure of information or documents of the S ubscribers to unauthorized  
disclosure; or  
c. Hacking the security of retained personal or non -personal information or data 
or lacking the validity and integrity  thereof , in a manner affecting the services 
provided.  
8. Informing  the S ubscribers  and the Relying Parties in  a clear and accessible  way before 
starting to provide Trust Servi ces or Qualified Trust Services of all terms and 
conditions related  to the use of such services, including  any restrictions on such  use, 
obligations and responsibilities to be assumed by the Subscribers and the Relying 
Parties  when using such services, as well as  seeking the consent of the Subscribers and 
the Relying Parties before starting to provide the services to them.  
9. Notifying the party relying on T rust Servi ces or Qualified Trust Services of levels of 
security and trust of the used Digital Identity  as part of the service provision.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  12 
 10. Ensuring the compliance with the requirements, s tandards and controls of the security 
and trust level technology defined in the Electronic Identification System approved by 
the TDRA .  
11. Preparing a constantly -updated Termination P lan to ensure a continuous  service,  
pursuant to the Decree -Law, the present Resolution and the resolutions issued by the 
TDRA in pursuance to the Decree -Law and the present Resolution, and the 
requirements of the Competent Authorities. The Termination Plan shall show the 
following:  
a. Means for notifying the Subs cribers upon the termination or discontinuation  
of services;  
b. Mechanism for ensurin g the safety and reliability of the Subscribers’ records;  
c. Methods  for the Subscribers  affected by the termination or discontinuation  of 
serv ices to access to their records; and  
d. Methods to ensure  unaffected transactions and records made  and created by 
the Subscribers throughout the per iod of providing  Trust Services by the 
Licensee.  
12. Recording and maintaining information related to data issued  and received  by the  
Licensee , particular ly data  used to provide proofs for any legal proceedings or to 
ensure the continuity of service  for a period not less than (15)  fifteen year s from the 
date of creating the master register, oth er than identification proofs used to issue the 
authentication  certificate, which shall be recorded and maintained for a period not 
less than (10) ten years f rom the certificate expiry date, along with giving  access to 
such information.  
13. Developing adequate mechanisms  to receive and handle complaints, as per the 
requirements identified by the TDRA .  
14. Drawing  up the service policy document and the practice statement , as per the 
standards and controls issued by the TDRA.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  13 
 15. Fulfilling the standards and requirements issued by the TDRA  when identifying 
service procedures, as listed in the service policy document an d the practice statement  
document.  
16. Publishing the service policy and the practice  statement, as amended, to the public in 
Arabic a nd English, in an electronic format  accessible  24/7.  
17. Publishing the service policy dis closure document  provided , which briefly shows key 
points of the policy of providing the service to the Subscribers and the Relying Parties.  
 
Article (16)  
Obligations of the Qualified Trust Service Provider  
In addition to the obligations set forth  in article (15) above,  the Qualified Trust Service 
Providers shall comply with the following controls and procedures:  
1. Fair , honest and professional business conduct  in the  course of all their activities and 
operations.   
2. Appoint ing personnel with  specialized experti se, as per the competence and the 
required  and reliable  practical and scientific expertise , from among those who hold 
adequate certifications and trainings on the rules of information securi ty and personal 
data protection, and of those who are familiar with the relevant natio nal and 
international standards.   
3. Securing  adequate financial resources for the management and operat ion of Qualified 
Trust Services.   
4. Using reliable a nd secure  systems to sto re, process and pr otec t data  in such a manner 
that such data can be:  
a. Retrieved, subject to the prior consent of the data subject ;  
b. Entered , processed and changed only by authorized Persons; and  
c. Validated.  
5. Taking all actions necessary  for preventing data falsification, theft and unauthorized 
use.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  14 
 6. Using  reliable and secure systems and technologies protec ted from hacking and 
unauthorized  modification and ch ange, including techno -security and security of  
procedures and transactions supported by the same.  
 
Article (17)  
Discontinuation  of Services  
1. The  Licensee may not discontinue any of its activities or services without the prior 
approval of the TDRA.  
2. The application for discontinuation of Trust Services or Qualified  Trust Services shall 
be made according to the means identified by the TDRA . 
3. The TDRA shall reply to the appl ication for discontinuation of Trust Services or 
Qualified Trust Ser vices  within one month from the date  of submitting the application. 
In cases wh ere more time is r equ ired for review and examination, the Licensee s hall 
be notified of the updated period.  
4. The Licensee shall notify the TDRA of its desire  to discontinue providing any Trust 
Services or Qualified Trust Services, in whole or in part, at least (3) thre e months prior 
to the scheduled termination date.  
5. The Licensee shall inform the public, including the  Subscribers and the Relying P arties, 
of its desire to discontinue  provi ding any of its services, in whole or in part, at least (2) 
months before the scheduled termination date and after obtaining  the TDRA’s 
approval.  
6. The Licensee shall help and  enable the Subscribers to transfer to another Licensee 
providing services similar to the serviced intended to be terminated, as the case may 
be, as per the controls and instructions set by the TDRA.  
7. The Licensee shall take necessary measures to ensure th at the discontinuation  of any 
of its services or part thereof  will not disrupt the verification  of validity and reliability 
of the service  outcomes that would have arisen before the actual termination thereof.    
 Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  15 
 Article (18)  
Licensee's Obligations to Activate the Termination Plan  
The Licensee shall activate  its service Terminal Plan and shall take the following actions:  
1. Revoking all certificates of authentication or data of Subscribers’ accounts issued by 
the Licensee pertaining to the  services intended  to be  terminated, which had not been 
revoked or which will not expire before the Licensee t erminates its services, whether 
the Subscribers request to terminate the same or not;  
2. Revoking all other relevant certificates;  
3. Destroying , susp ending or preventing the use of all data  of creation of Electronic 
Signature/Seal of the License e or Subscribers, including backups, so that the data of 
Electronic Signature/Seal creation cannot be restored; and  
4. The Licensee shall keep providing its services to the Subscribers within the term of t he 
Termination Plan approved by the TDRA, and it may not provide its services to any 
new Subscriber from the date of activating the Termination Plan.  
 
Article (19)  
Reliable Electronic Signature s and Seals  
1. A Reliable Electronic Signature/Seal shall fulfill t he specifications and standards of 
Encryption, the mechanism and requirements for an Elect ronic Signature/ Seal  
creation , information security contr ols and additional requirements under the 
resolutions issued by the TDRA.  
2. A Reliable Electronic Signature/Seal shall be created according to one or more of the 
templates and formats identified under the resolutions issued by the TDRA.  
 
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  16 
 Article (20)  
Qualified Electronic Signatures and Seal s  
A Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal shall fulfill the following requirements:  
1. Fulfilling the conditions under the resolutions issued by the TDRA , as set forth in 
article (19) above at the time of signature;  
2. Not  to compromise the integrity of data signed;  
3. The device used to create a Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal shall fulfill  the 
requirements set out in article (26) hereunder; and  
4. Any additional requirements set by the TDRA  under the resolutions issued by the 
TDRA in implementation of the Decree -Law  and this Resolution , and the Competent 
Authorities’ requirements.   
 
Article (21)  
Requirements for Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal  
Authentication Certificate   
1. A Qualified Electronic Signature/ Seal Authentication  Certificate shall include the 
following:  
a. Wording  or reference, in at least automatable format , stating that the 
certificate has been issued as a Qualified Electronic Signature/ Seal 
Authentication Certific ate. 
b. A set of data that unequivocally  identif y the Qualified Trust Service Provider 
that issues Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication Certificate s, 
including a reference to the Unite d Arab Emirates bei ng the State where the 
provider provides such service. Such  data shall include name and ID number 
of the Qualified Trust Service Provider, as mentioned in official registers .    
c. A set of data that unequivocal ly represents the signature/seal  issuer ’s identity , 
including the following data:  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  17 
 1) Full name of the  Signatory , and where applicable, the identification 
number as mentioned in official registers; and  
2) A pseudonym , and if used, it shall be clearly referenced.  
d. Signature/seal verification  data corresponding  to data of the Elec tronic 
Signature/Seal creation data.  
e. Details  of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication Certificate  
validity period  (start and end).  
f. Identification code of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication 
Certificate, which must be unique for the Qualified  Trust Service Provide r.  
g. The Qualified Electron ic Signature/Seal issued by the Qu alified Trust Service 
Provider that issued the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication 
Certificate.  
h. A free link to download the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication 
Certif icate.  
i. The  website of accessible services  to check the validity of the Qualified 
Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication Certificate.  
2. Where the data of Elect ronic Signature/Seal creation of the verification of  Electronic 
Signature is found in a device for creating a Qualified Electronic Signature, a reference  
thereto shall be made in  the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication 
Certificate  in an automatable format.    
3. A Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication Certificate  may include specific 
non -compulsory  additional features, so that it will not affect the interoperability and 
the recognition  of the  Qualified Electronic Signature/ Seal.  
4. TDRA  may add any other requirements in the Q ualified Electronic Signature/Seal 
Authentication Certificate  under the resolutions issued by the TDRA in 
implementation of the Decree -Law  and this Resolution and the Competent 
Authorities’ requirements.  
 Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  18 
 Article (22)  
Revocation  of Authentication Certificates  
Where a Qualified Electronic Signature/ Seal Authentication Certificate  is revoked after 
being issued, it  shall be come  invalid once revoked. In no event may such  certificate be 
reactivated.   
 
Article (23)  
Prohibition of Temporary Suspension of Authentication Certificates  
It is prohibited for the Licensee to temporarily suspend a Qualified Electronic 
Signature/Seal Auth entication Certificate , or temporarily suspend  its validity period after 
being activated.  
 
Article (24)  
Issuance of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal  
Authentication Certificate  
1. The Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication Certificate s may be provided 
as a Qualified Trust S ervice only through a Qualified Trust Service Provider.  
2. The Qualified  Trust Service Providers may use a Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal 
Authentication Certificate issued by another Q ualified Trust Service Provider 
accompa nied by a valid Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal  to authenticate the Person 
requesting a Qualifie d Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication Certificate.  
3. Where the Qualified Trust Service Provider uses a procedure equivalent to the 
appearance in person to verify the identity and capacity of the Person  to whom a 
Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Auth entication Certificate will issue, pursuant to 
Clause (4) of Artic le (34) of the Decree -Law, the TDRA may, in addition to th e 
Compliance Assessment report, ascertain that such procedures is equivalent to the 
appearance in person, pursuant to the controls issued by the TDRA in this regard.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  19 
 4. The Qualified Trust Service Provider that issues a Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal 
Authentication Certificate as a Qualified Trust Service shall create and update a 
data base for the certificates.  
5. The Qualified Trust Service Provider shall identify a set of adequate policies and 
practices to provide the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Authentication Certificate 
as a Qualified Trust  Service under the policy of  providing the  Qualified Electronic 
Signature/Seal Authentication Certificate  service as a Qualified Trust Service and the 
practice statement of such service.  
6. The service policy and the practice statement shall be governed by the  technical 
requirements and specifications of the content an d structure of policies defined under  
the resolutions issued by the TDRA.  
7. The Qualified Trust Service  provider shall be responsible  for providing the Qualified 
Trust Service according to the procedures set forth in the service practice  statement 
and the service policy. Where the Trust Serv ice or part thereof is provided by third 
parties, the Qualified Trust Service Provider shall identify the responsibility  of such 
parties and ensure  that they will comply with any controls required by the Qualified 
Trust Service Provider.   
 
Article (25)  
Revocati on of Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal  
 Authentication Certificate  
1. If the Qualified Trust Service P rovider that issued a Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal 
Authentication  Certificate decides to revoke the certificate, at the request of its holder 
or for the reasons identified by the service pr ovider, they shall record the revocation 
in their certificate  database and publish the certificate revocation case  status  on the  
service of verifying the validity of certificates, within a period not exceeding (24) 
twenty four h ours from the date of receiving the certificate holder’s request. The 
revocation shall take effect once published.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  20 
 2. The Qualified Trust Service Provider sha ll provide any Rely ing Party with  any 
information re lated to the validity or revocation of authentication certificates issued  
by the same, even following the expiry of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal 
Authentication Certificate  and for at least (15)  fifteen years from the expiry thereof ; 
provided  that such information  is free and automatically accessible at all times.  
 
Article (26)  
Issuing the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Device  
1. A Qualified  Electron ic Signature/Seal  creation  device  may be issued to Signatories  as 
a Qualified Trust Service only through a Q ualified Trust Service Provider fulfilling the 
technological , pro cedural security and regulatory specifications and standards to be 
identified under a resolution by the TDRA.  
2. The Qualified  Trust Service Provider shall identify a set of adequate policies and 
practices  to provide devices  for creating the Qualified Electroni c Signature/Seal as a 
Qualified Trust Service. In  all cases, such policies and practices shall fulfill  the technical 
requirements an d specifications of content and structure identified under a resolution 
by the TDRA.  
3. A Qualified Electron ic Signature/Seal creation device  must  fulfill  the requirements of 
article (21) of the Decree -Law, and the Qualified Electron ic Signature/Seal creation 
device mus t be approved by entities  issuing qualification certificates for such devices , 
whether public or private entities ; provided that such entiti es are approved by the 
TDRA.  
4. The Qualified Trust Service Provider shall comply with the standards and 
requirements  of security assessment of IT technologies, products and servic es issued 
by the TDRA for approving the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal creation devices .  
5. Entities  granting qual ification certificates for the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal 
creation devices  shall comply with the list of standards a nd requirements issued by 
the TDRA. Any qualification granted to any of such entities  or any devices  approved Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  21 
 by the same shall be revoked if it is established that it has violated such standards and 
requirements.  
6. The Electronic S ignature creation data may be managed,  created and copied  on behalf 
of the Signatory  only through a Qualified  Trust Service Provider th at provides a 
Quali fied Trust Service for managing a Qualified Electronic Signature  creation device  
remotely.   
7. The Qualified T rust Service Provider shall use only Qualified Electronic Signature /Seal 
creation devices  approved by the TDRA.  
8. The TDRA shall create, publish and manage a list of  entities that issue  qualification 
certificates of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal creation devices  and tools 
approved by the same , in addition to a dated record showing the status of such entities 
and the status  of approvals of qualification of devices .  
9. The Qualified  Trus t Service Provider shall follow the condition s and procedures issued 
by the TDRA to apply for using Qualified El ectronic Signature/Seal creation devices , 
in order to be listed in the list referred to in Clause (8) above.  
10. An applicant for a Qualified Ele ctronic Signature/Seal creation device or the Licensee 
if the qualification certificate granted to t he device  by the entities issuing qualification 
certificates for Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal creation devices , shall so notify  the 
TDRA within two weeks from the date of revocation. In  this case, TDRA may make or 
may ask the Qualified Trust Service Pr ovider to make an assessment on the impact on 
the licensed services  and to take any appropriate actions based on the assessment  
findings.   
 
Article (27)  
Remote Management of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal Device   
1. The Qualified Electroni c Signature/Seal creation devices  shall be managed remotely 
as a Trust Service qualified by the Qualified  Trust Service Provider that shall:  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  22 
 a. Create  and manage the Qualified Electroni c Signature/Seal creation data on 
behalf of the Signatory ; and  
b. Copy  the Qualified Electronic Signature/Se al creation data  only for backup 
purposes, subject to the following:  
1) The  level of security of copied datasets must be at the same level of security 
of original datasets; and  
2) The  number of copied datasets must not exceed the minimum required to 
ensure the  continuity of service.  
c. To ensure remote conformity with any requirements set out in the 
qualification  certificate of the Qualified Electronic Signature /Seal creation 
device , issued pursuant to article (26) above.  
2. The TDRA shall issu e the resolutions pertaining to technological standards and 
specifications related to Clause  (1) above.  
3. The Trust Service Provider shall identify a set of adequate policies and practices  for 
providing the service of remote management of t he Qualified Electronic  
Signature/Seal creation devices  as a Qualified  Trust Service. In all cases, such policies 
and practices shall fulfill the technical requirements and specifications of content and 
structure, as identified by a resolution issued by the TDRA.  
4. The Qualified Trust Service Provider shall be responsible for  providing the Qualified  
Trust Service according to the procedures set forth in the service practice statement  
and the service policy. Where the Trust Service or part thereof is provided by third 
parties, the Qualifi ed Trust Service Provider shall identify  the responsibility o f such 
parties and ensure their compliance with any controls required by the Qualified Trust 
Service Provider.  
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  23 
 Article (28)  
Data Retention of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal  
1. The Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal data retention  service may be provided only 
by a Qualified  Trust Service Provider that uses the procedures and techn ologies 
capable of extending the  Trust Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal  authenticity period  
beyond the technological  validity period identified by a resolution by the TDRA. Such  
procedures and technologies shall have no impact on the reliability of the Qualified 
Electronic Signature/Seal.  
2. The Qualified  Trust Service Provider shall retain the au thenticity  of the Trust Qualified 
Electronic Signature/Seal for a period not less than (15) fifteen years from  the 
retention request date.  
3. The Qualified Trust Service Provider  shall retain all information necessary for verifying 
the validity of the Qualif ied Trust Service Provider up to the end of the retention  
period.  
4. The Qualified Trust Service Provider shall ensure the safety, quality and clarity  of the 
Qualified  Electronic Signature/Seal data retained b y the same, and shall allow to be 
prop erly used by the Subscribers or another Qualified Trust Service Provider 
providing a Qualified  Trust Service, subject to the Subscribers’ express consent.  
5. A signature  or seal affixed to a retention manual issued by the Qualified Trust Service 
Provider  mus t be made by using a Reliable  Electronic Signature/Seal issued by the 
provider.  
6. The Qualified Trust Service Provider shall identify a set of adequate policies and 
practices  to provide the service of the Qualified Electr onic Signature/Seal data 
retention  as a Qualified Trust Service. In all cases, such policies and practices  shall fulfil 
the technical requirements and specifications of content and structure  identified by a 
resolution issued by the TDRA.  
7. The Qualified Trust Service provider shall be respo nsible for providing the Qualified 
Trust Service according to the procedures set forth in the service practice statement Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  24 
 and the service policy. Where the Trust Service or part thereof is provided by third 
parties, the Qualified Trust Service Provider shal l identify the responsibility of such 
parties and ensure that they will comply with any controls required by the Qualified 
Trust Service Provider.   
 
Article (29)  
Archiving Digital Documents  
When government authorities  archive electronic documents signed by a 
Reliable /Qualified  Electronic Signature /Seal, the y shall ensure the following:  
1. To preserve the Electronic  Signature/Seal  from change .  
2. To preserve the Electronic Signature/Seal from deletion.  
3. To ensure that the E lectronic Signature/Seal is recreated on a new document should 
any authorized  change is introduced to the Electronic Document.  
 
Article (30)  
Validation of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal  
1. The Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal validation  service may only be provided by a 
Qualified  Trust Service Provider that fulfills the provisions of  article (20) of the 
Decree -Law, and pursuant to the resolutions issued by the TDRA in this regard.  
2. The Qu alified Electronic Signature/Seal data validation service  provider shall identify 
adequate policies and practices to verify the validity of the Qualified Electronic 
Signature s/Seal s.  
3. Time information added to the result  of the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal 
validation shall be created by using a qualified Time Stamp.  
4. The Qualified Trust Service provider shall be responsible for providing the Qualified 
Trust Service according to the procedures set forth in the servic e practice statement 
and the service policy. Where the Trust Service or part thereof is provided by third 
parties, the Qualified Trust Service Provider shall identify the responsibility of such Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  25 
 parties and ensure that they will comply with any controls req uired by the Qualified 
Trust Service Provider.   
5. The TDRA shall issue the resolutions pertaining to technologic al standards and 
specifications to be adhered by the qualified service provider, including:  
a. Operational  and security controls, service managemen t mechanism, physical 
security requirements , requirements for  technica l and security inspections 
testing  of the service  before provided to the Subscribers and technical and 
security inspection reports.  
b. Requirements  for listing the Qualified Electronic Signature/Seal  validation 
service as a Qualified Trus t Service in the UAE Trust List.  
 
Article (31)  
Qualified  Electronic Time Stamp  Creation Service   
1. The Qualified Electronic Time S tamp creation service may be provided only by a 
Qualified Trust Service Provider that fulfills the provisions of article ( 23) of the 
Decree -Law, and pursuant to the resolutions issued by the TDRA  in this regard.  
2. The Qualified Trust Service Provider that provides the Qualified Electronic Time 
Stamp creation service shall identify a set of adequate policies and practices to create 
the Qualified Electronic Time Stamp. In all cases, such policies and practices shall fulfil 
the technical requirements and specifications of content and structure identified by a 
resolution issued by the TDRA.   
3. The Q ualified Trust Service provider that provides the Qualified Electronic Time 
Stamp service shall be responsible for providing such service according to the 
procedures set forth in the service practice statement and the service policy. Where 
the Trust Servic e or part thereof is provided by third parties, the Qualified Trust Service 
Provider shall identify the responsibility of such parties and shall ensure that they will 
comply with any controls required by the Qualified Trust Service Provider.   Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  26 
 4. The TDRA sha ll issue the resolutions pertaining to technological sta ndards and 
specifications to be complied with by the Qualified Service P rovider, including:  
a. The service policy and the practices statement, as m entioned in article (15) 
above; and  
b. Requirements for listing the service in the UAE Trust List.  
 
Article (32)  
Qualified Electronic Delivery Service  
1. The Qualified Electronic Delivery Service may be provided only by a Qualified Trust 
Service Provider that fulfills the provisions of article (2 4) of the Decree -Law, and 
pursuant to the resolutions issued by the TDRA in this regard.  
2. The Qualif ied Electronic Delivery Service Provider shall identify  the sender and the 
Addressee at a high level of security  and trus t and at a high degree of trust and 
acceptance , so as to eliminate an y risks and prevent manipulation of  the identity of 
the sender and the Addressee.  
3. The Qualified Electronic Delivery Service Provider shall identify a set of adequate 
policies and practices  to provide the Qualified Electronic Delivery Service. In all cases, 
such policies and practices shall fulfil the technical requirements and specifica tions of 
content and structure identified by a resolution issued by the TDRA.     
4. The Qualified Electronic Delivery Service Provider shall be responsible for providing 
such service according to the procedures set forth in the service practice statement 
and  the service policy. Where the Trust Service or part thereof is provided by third 
parties, the Qualified Electronic Delivery Service Provider shall identify the 
responsibility of such parties and shall ensure that they will comply with any controls 
require d by the Qualified Electronic Delivery Service Provider .  
5. TDRA shall issu e the resolutions pertaining to technological sta ndards and 
specifications to be complied with by the Qualified Electronic Delivery Service 
Provider, including:  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  27 
 a. The service policy and the practice  statement set forth in article (15) above;  
b. Requirements for listing  the Qualified Electronic Delivery Service  and user  
manuals; and  
c. Requirements for listing t he service in the UAE Trust List.  
6. Data sent and received via the Qualified Electronic Delivery Service shall const itute 
evidence of the integrity of data sent and being sent by an identified  sender  and 
received by an ident ified Addressee, in addition to an accurate sending and receiving 
date as referred to by the Qualified Electronic Delivery Service.  
 
Article (33)  
Compliance Assessment  
1. Any entity  not approved or authorized  by the TDRA may not  carry out a compliance 
assessment for the purpose of implementing  the Decree -Law and this Resolution and 
the resolutions issued by the TDRA in implementation of both of which , and the 
Competent Authorities’ requirements.  
2. An entity assessing the complianc e must be  approved by and registered with the 
TDRA.  
3. The  Compliance Assessment entity  shall draw up a report on the conformity of the 
License applicant or the Licen see and services provided or to be provided  with the 
requirements set forth in the Decree -Law and this Resolution and the resolutions 
issued by the TDRA in implementation of both of which , and the Competent 
Authorities’ requirements .  
4. The Compliance Assessment reports shall be issued according to t he specifications 
and procedures identified by the TDRA.  
5. The Compliance A ssessment entity shall avoid any conflict of interest, whether actual 
or potential conflict of interest , for carrying out the Compliance Assessment of the 
License applicant or the Li censee. The TDRA shall identify the necessary standards and 
controls in this regard.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  28 
 6. The TDRA shall issue the resolution s related to technologic al standards and 
specifications to be complied with by the Compliance Assessment entities, including:  
a. Mechanisms  for accrediting assessment entities; and  
b. Rules of scrutiny  to be complied with by the Compliance Assessment entities 
while assessing the compliance of Trust Service Providers or Qualified Trust  
Service Providers and services provided by them.  
 
Article (34)  
UAE Trust List  
1. The TDRA shall create a list to be called “the UAE Trust List” according to the 
specifications set by the TDRA, and shall publish the same on its website. Such list 
shall include the following:  
a. Information  on Trust Service Providers, Trust Services provided by the  same 
and indication  of the License status; and  
b. Information on Qualified Trust Service Providers, Qualified Trust Services 
provided by the same and indication  of the License status and the Status of 
Qualified  Service Provider.  
2. The information referred to in Clause (1) above sha ll be provided by Trust Service 
Providers or Qualified  Trust Service Providers in suc h a confirmed and reliable 
manner through their compliance reports issued by the Compliance Assessment 
entity or the TDRA.  
3. The TDRA shall issue  the resolutions related to technologic al standards and 
specifications and t he UAE Trust List procedures, such as the UAE Trust List form, 
content,  publication mechanism, maintenance, adjustment, reading  mechanism  and 
use by Qualified Parties.  
4. TDRA shall list the Licensee in the UAE Trust List on the basis of services set out in the 
License.  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  29 
 5. When the TDRA lists the  Licensee in the UAE Trust List, it shall link each service set out 
in the License  with a  Digital Identifier that allows to uniquely and clearly identify the 
service according to the technical specifications and resolutions issued b y the TDRA 
in this regard.  
 
Article (35)  
Qualified Trust Mark  
1. The TDRA sha ll identify, publish and manage the standards r elated to the form, 
content and presentation  of the Qualified  Trust Mark of the Qualified Trust Services.  
2. The Qualified Trust Service Provider may use the provided Qualified Trust Mark ; 
provided that a reference is made to the Status of Qualified Servic e Provider in the 
UAE Trust List, as follows:  
a. Fulfilling the Status of Qualified  Service Provider and the licenses necessary 
for a Qualified  Trust Service Provider, pursuant to the Decree -Law and this 
Resolution and the resolutions issued by the TDRA in i mplementation of both 
of which , and the Competent Authorities’ requirements;  
b. A reference must be made in a clear and non -misleading way to the Qualified 
Trust Services, the Status of Qualified Se rvice Provider and the effective license 
of the Qualified  Trust Service; and  
c. Providing an active link for the Qualified  Trust Mark refers to the Status of 
Qualified  Service Provider and the Qualified Trust Services in the UAE Trust 
List, as per the requirements and resolut ions issued by the TDRA.  
 
  Cabinet Resolution on the Executive Regulations of Federal Decree -Law on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services  30 
 Article (36)  
Repeals  
Any provision contrary to or in confl ict with the provisions of this Resolution shall hereby 
be Repealed.  
 
Article (37)  
Publication and Entry into Force of the Resolution  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force (90) 
days following the publication date.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
 
Issued by us:  
On: Ramadan 9th, 1444 H.  
Corresponding to: March 31st, 2023 AD . 