Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (47) of 2023  
on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (14) of 2020  
on the Protection of Witnesses and the Like  
 
The Cabinet,  
Having reviewed:  
− The Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competences  of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (14) of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and the Like; and  
− Based on the Proposal submitted by the Minister of Interior, and the Cabinet approval 
thereof,  
Hereby resolves as follows:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
The  definitions set forth in Federal Law No. (14) of  2020, referred to hereinabove,  shall 
apply to this Resolution;  otherwise, the following words and expression s shall hav e the 
meanings assigned thereto respectively, unless the context requires otherwise:  
Ministry  :  The Ministry of Interior.  
Minister  : The Minister of Interior.  
Law  : Federal Law No. (14) of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like.  
Security Guard  : A guard appointed pursuant to the Law of Private Security 
Companies.  
 
  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  2 
 Article (2)  
Functions of the  Protection Unit  
The Protection Unit shall exercise the following functions:  
1. To participate in developing a comprehensive policy to protect witnesses , including 
developing criteria for  the assessment of  risks to which they are exposed and  the 
methods and means for p rotect ing the Protected Persons, in coordination with the 
relevant authorities  in the State;   
2. To carry out ongoing  assessments of risks per taining to the Protected Person ;  
3. To dr aw up a report on risks to which the Protect Person may  be exposed;  
4. To design a personal protection program for the Protected Person and identify  
protection  levels that will be provided;  
5. To set procedures for cooperation and coordinati on with police commands on the 
Protection  Program, and  the responsibilities dete rmined between the police and the 
Protection Unit to implement  the Protection P rogram;  
6. To coordinate efforts  of cooperation between the competent government authorities 
to define their roles in implementing  the Protection P rogram;  
7. To en hance  cooperation with foreign states and authorities i n the area of 
implementing the Protection P rograms; and  
8. To perform a ny other functions or competences identified under  a resolution by the 
Minister or the chairman of the competent authority.  
 
Article (3)  
Obligations of the Protection Unit  
Within  the framework of practicing  its functions, the Protection Unit shall:  
1. Provide  the required protection to the Protected P erson according to the P rotection  
Program;  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  3 
 2. Prepare appropriate sites and places inside or outside the State for the purpose of 
implementing the Protection P rogra ms, in coordination  with the Competent A uthority  
and  the relevant authorities;  
3. Set appropriate  work procedures to secure the Protection P rograms and protect data;  
and   
4. Coordinate with the management of private security companies and private security 
companies , as per  the geographical scope, to select Security Guards charged with  
implement ing the Protection P rograms according to the controls set forth in this 
Resolution.  
 
Article (4)  
Phases of the Protection Program  
The Protection Unit shall set the Protection Program according to the following 
procedures:  
1. To design the Protection Program in de tail for every Protected Person, so that it 
commensurate wit h the risks, circumstances and facts requiring his protection;  
2. To approve the Protection Program in coordination with the authorities in charge of 
financial affairs;  
3. The Protection Unit shall implement the Protection  Program  in coordination with the 
relevant authorities inside or outside the State; and  
4. To review the Protection Program  on a regular basis and submit necessary 
amendment proposals.  
 
Article (5)  
Determination of Protective Measures   
Subject to the criteria set forth in article (8) of the Law, the Protection  Unit or the Judicial 
Authority  shall propose protective measures according to the following criteria:  
1. The public interest  arising from  the criminal proceedings;  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  4 
 2. Means  that may be provided by the police to protect a person required to be protected;  
3. Budget placed at the disposal of the Protection Unit; and   
4. Appropriateness of a person re quired to be protected for the Protection P rogram 
through the following sub -criteria:  
a. Criminal record;  
b. Marital status;  
c. Psychological state;  
d. Physical fitness; and  
e. Any  other criteria the Competent Authority deems necessary .   
 
Article (6)  
Classification of Risks  
A risk that a person required to be protected may be exposed to shall be classified 
according t o the classification of risks set out in Table (1) annexed to this Resolution .  
  
Article (7)  
Applications for Enrollment in the Protection Program  
1. Where  there is a ne ed to enroll a person in the Protection Pr ogram, an enrollment 
application sh all be submitted by the Competent A uthority or the Judicial Authority to 
the Competent Court, accompanied by the following documents:  
a. Evidence  collection reports of which the person required to be protected is part 
and the nature and significance of his cooperation with the police in this 
regard, along with mentioning the possibility for obtaining similar evidence 
from other sources;  
b. Nature of potential  risk to the p erson required to be protected and the overall  
circumstances and data justifying  his enrollment in the Protection P rogram;  
c. Details on the type of crime committed and suspected persons;  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  5 
 d. Details on the nature of existing threats, foreseeable risks and avai lable 
security information thereon;  
e. Details  of actions, if any, taken by the police for the person required to be 
protected;  
f. Proposals  for the required Protection P rogram;  
g. An acknowledgment by the person required to be protected that he agrees to 
be enrolled  in the Protection P rogram;  
h. Family members proposed to be enrolled  in the Protection P rogram; and  
i. Names of persons  whose  life and safety are at risk due to their close 
relationship with the Protected Person and persons  required  to be enrolled  in 
the Protection P rogram.  
2. The Competent Court shall decide on the application referred to in Clause (1) above 
within (15) fifteen business days from the date on which the application is submitted 
thereto. The Co mpetent Court’s decision in  this regard shall be final and 
unchallengeable by any means of challenge.  
3. A decision issued by the Competent Court on the rejection of the application, pursuant 
to the provisions of Clause  (2) of this Article  shall not preclude the submission of a 
new  application should  serious reasons have arisen revealing a serious risk.  
 
Article (8)  
Temporary Measures Until  the Issuance of the Decision on Admission  
 to the Protection Program  
Subject to Arti cle (10) of the Law , the Protection Unit may take any of the measures set 
forth in the Law and the present Resolution to protect any person required to be enrolled 
in the Protection P rogram, until the de cision of his admission to the Protection P rogram is 
issue d by the Competent Court for a period up to (15) fifteen days.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  6 
 Article (9)  
Details of the Protection Instrument  
Subject to article (13) of the Law, the Protection Instrument shall include the following 
details and information:  
1. An acknowledgment that the details submitted by th e Protected Person are accurate;  
2. An undertaking that the Protected Person shall cooperate  with police and  security and 
judicial authorities  in all m atters related to investigation procedures and giving his 
testimony before the court;  
3. Obligations  of the Protected Person in co nnection with implementing the Protection 
Program,  including settleme nt of his financial affairs, as sets and rights to his property, 
and settlement of  legal proceedings to which he is a party, including signing 
documents necessary for settlement  of all such matters, including the appointment of 
an advocate as necessary ;  
4. An undertaking to re frain from committi ng any crime or any action threatening the 
security of the Protected P erson, any of his family member or any other person, or 
hinder ing the Protection Program ’s effectiveness;  
5. An undertaking to keep  the confidentiality of the details of the Protection Program , 
the identity of the Protection Unit’s employee s and any other person involved  in the 
application of the Protection Program, as well as keeping the confidentiality of any 
other fact the Protected Person is r equired to keep confidential, and informing him 
that the disclosure of such details shall be deemed a criminal offence;  
6. An ack nowledgment  by the Pr otected Person that the failure to fulfill his obligations 
or the submission of false information may b e a reason for disenrollment from the 
Protection Program, and that he is aware of the consequences of disenrollment from 
the Protect ion Program; and  
7. Any  condition, acknowledgement or undertaking the Protection Unit deems 
necessary for the purpose of implementing the Protection Program.  
 Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  7 
 Article (10)  
Results of the Protection Instrument  
Signing the Protection Instrument shall lead to the following results:  
1. All details of the Protection Program that will be provided to the Protected Person shall 
be introduced to him.   
2. Signing  the Protection Instrument shall result in actual enrollment  of the Protected 
Person in the Protection Program.  
In all cases, t he Protected Person may request to dis continue in or change the Protection 
Program.  
 
Article (11)  
Means for Implementing the Protection Program  
The Protection Program shall be implemented  through the measures prescribed by virtue 
of the Law according to the means shown in Table (2) annexed to the present Resolution .    
 
Article (12)  
Convic ts or Remand Prisoners  Covered by the Protection Program  
If the Protecte d Person is a convict or remand prisoner , the place of hi s detention shall be 
determined, whether inside or outside  the penal institution. The Protection Prog ram 
period shall be counted as part of  the execution period  of the sentence  imposed .  
 
Article (13)  
Minor or Incapacitated Person Covered by the Protection Program   
1. A minor,  incapacitated or disable person may be enrolled in the Protection  Program 
only after obtaining a written consent from his legal representative, as the case may 
be, unless the Competent Court decides that he shall be covered by the Protection 
Program.  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  8 
 2. If a minor, incapacitated or disable person  is approved to be cov ered by the Protection 
Program,  the Competent Court may issue any directives to the legal representativ e of 
the Protected Person for the purpose of implementing  the Protection Program and 
preserving his interest, including a minor’s custody and place of residence.  
 
Article (14)  
Right of the Protected Person to Receive Funds  
1. The Protected Person may receive any funds  during the implementation of the 
Protection Program according to the procedures identified by the Protection Unit.  
2. The funds referr ed to in Clause (1) of this Article shall be subject to control ; in terms  of 
their sources and how they relate to the parties to the crime under investigation or 
trial,  and how their sources are related to persons involved in criminal activities inside 
or outside the State.   
 
Article (15)  
Controls for Issuing New Identi ty for the Protected Person  
If the Protected Person is subject to the identity change measures, the following  controls 
shall be followed:  
1. The Competent Court  shall issue its decision  obligating the authority  in charge of 
issuing identities to register, issue and document the new identity of the Protected  
Person. Such authority  may amend or revoke the new identity of the Protected  Person  
and issue necess ary directives where amendments are introduced to the Protection 
Program or is revoked.  
2. A decision issued by the Comp etent Court pursuant to the provisions of Clause (1) of 
this Article shall be limited to  the issuance of a new identity, and may not be ex tended 
to other issues pertaining to the Protected Person’ s capacity, qualifications, education, 
personal status, religion, health  condition , employment status or other docume nts or 
data granting him a right or creating an obligation.  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  9 
 3. The issuance of a ne w identity to the Protected Pe rson may not prejudice any legal 
status of the latter or any of his prescribed rights and obligations, legal status, personal 
status or financial affairs.  
4. The Protected Person’s new identity data, new address or any other details related to 
his previous iden tity or address  may be disclosed  if it turns out that the need for 
disclosing su ch information is necessary for investigation procedures or criminal 
procedures  or for protecting persons’ lives , or that the public interest  requires the 
disclosure of his  own  information.  
5. If the Competent Court  approves to issue a new identity  for the Protected Person , the 
Protected Person  shall:  
a. Introduce  himself using his new identity;  
b. Use his original identity or the document fo r which he gives testimony  only for 
giving testimony  during criminal proceedings in the course of the Protection 
Progra m or by virtue of the prior written approval  of the Protection Unit; and  
c. Use the new identity that has been amended or revoked o r any document 
proving it  only according to the directives issued by the Competent Court. The 
Protected Person  may also provide any details on any amendments introduced 
to his new identity only subject to the Protection Unit’s prior approval.  
 
Article (16)  
App ointment of an Attorney for the Protected Person  
1. When a decision  requiring the Protected Person to be subject to the measure of 
changing the identity  is taken , he may appoint an attorney to act on his behalf 
pursuant to the legislation in force in this regard.  
2. The  attorney shall be granted , to the extent necessary, the power to legally represent 
the Protected  Person in  all proceedings, including the management of his assets, 
implementation of the proce dures related to him and transfer of the title of such asset s Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  10 
 if the Protected Person fails to carry out such procedures for being enrolled in the 
Protection Program.  
3. The attorney shall seek the Protected Person’s consent to carry out the procedures on 
his behalf to the extent necessary under the circumstances of the Protection Program.  
4. If the Protected  Person fails to appoint an attorney or a power of attorney expires 
without appointing a new attorney , the Protection Unit shall reques t the Competent 
Court to appoint an attorney for the Protected Person.  
5. The Protected Person  shall incur  the costs of management of his assets and  the costs 
related to the procedures carried out on  his own behalf.  
 
Article (17)  
Follow Up on the Implementation of the Protection Program  
The  Protection Unit shall, in coordination with the Competent Authority  or the Judicial 
Authority throughout the Protection Program period, follow up on the following subjects:  
1. All updates on the details and information related to the Protected Person, particularly  
those  related to the crime and its perpetrators  for which the Protected Person had 
enrolled in the Protection Program;  
2. Information on  the risks to the Protected Person;  
3. Finding s reached in connection with  the criminal procedures for which the Protected 
Person had been enrolled in the Protection Progr am; and  
4. Information  on matters that may affect the investigation or criminal procedures for 
which the Protected Person had been enrolled in the Protection Program.  
 
Article (18)  
Regular  Risk Assessment  
The Protection Unit  shall , in coordination with the Competent Authority or the Judicial 
Authority  throughout the Protection  Program period, regularly  reassess t he ris k to which 
the Protected Person may be exposed.  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  11 
 Article (19)  
Termination of the Protection Program  
Subject  to the provisions of article (18) of the Law, the Protec tion Program shall be 
terminate d if the Protected Person is co nvicted of any of the following crimes  during the 
implementation of the Program :  
1. Crimes against  the State’ s security and interests;  
2. Dishonesty crimes;  
3. Embezzlement;  
4. Theft,  
5. Bribery;  
6. Forgery and counterfeiting crimes;  
7. Fraud;  
8. Rape , indecent assault or pederasty ;  
9. Inciting debauchery and prostitution;  
10. Human trafficking crimes;  
11. Money laundering  crimes;  
12. Crimes affecting  national economy;  
13. Crimes  related to the abuse of office and the abuse of power;  
14. Crimes related to perverting the course of justice;  
15. Crimes related to narcotics or psychotropic substan ces;  
16. Crimes related to weapons, munitions  or military equipment;  
17. Crimes against persons;  
18. Crimes  of public risk; and  
19. Committing a felony set forth in any penal code.   
 
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  12 
 Article ( 20)  
Effects of Termination of  the Protection Program  
1. The termination of the Protection Progr am for a Protected Person shall not terminate 
it for the rest of Protected Persons enrolled in the  Protection Program.  
2. If the Protection Program is terminated by a decision  issued by the Comp etent Court, 
the Protected Person shall be served with a written notice signed by the Protection 
Unit showing the effects of terminating the Protection Program, and a copy thereof 
shall be submitted to the Competent Authority or the Judicial Authority, as the case 
may be.  
3. The  decision terminating the  Protection Program shall take effect after at least (10) ten 
days  from the date of its issuance, unless t he Protection Unit decides that the above 
time limit  is not sufficient and a longer time limit shall be set ; consequently, the time 
limit  shall be extended up to (30) thirty days.  
 
Article (21)  
Register of Protected Persons  
1. A register of Protected Persons shall be created in the Protection Unit and shall contain  
the following information:  
a. Details on the Protection Programs;  
b. Details on the Protected Persons;  
c. Any changes introduced to the personal data  and information related to the 
Protected Person through out the period of his enrollment in the Protection 
Program;  
d. The extent to which the Protected Person compl ies with the Protection 
Program to which he is subject; and   
e. Any other information necessary  for managing and implementing the 
Protection Programs.  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  13 
 2. The register shall be fed by the Protection Units with the necessary data, so as to 
contribute to coordinat ing efforts between the relevant authorities  and enhanc ing the 
effectiveness of the Protection Programs.  
3. The powers of using and feeding the register shall be granted according to the use 
policy approved by the Ministry.  
 
Article (22)  
Closed or Private Hearings  
The Competent Court’s hearings in actions relate d to the Protected Person or the 
Protection  Program shall be held in camera , unless  otherwise ordered by the court.  
All confidential materials sub mitted by the Protection Unit in the abovementioned actions 
shall be kept according to the applicable information security policy .  
 
Article (23)  
Cooperation with the Relevant Authorities  
1. The Protection Programs shall be implemented  with the relevant authorities 
according to the following controls:  
a. Maintaining the confidential ity of the  data of the Protected Persons and 
procedures taken between the two parties;  
b. Ensuring  that entities are competent in the secur ity field befor e enter ing into a 
contract with them on the Protection Program;  and   
c. Setting  a term for cooperati ng with such entities;  provided that the required 
term does not exceed  one renewable year.  
2. If such entity is a foreign  country or a government or non -governmen t internat ional 
or regional organization, the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and 
International Cooperation shall be obtained before proceeding with the procedures of 
cooperation therewith on implementing the Protection Program.   
 Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  14 
 Article (24)  
Contracting with Private Security Companies  
The  Competent Authority may enter into a contract with private se curity companies for 
implementing the Protection Program. A Security Guard  charged with implementing a 
Protection Program shall fulfil l the following requirements:  
1. He shall  be a citizen of the State .  
2. He shall  be at least (21) twenty  one calendar years  of age . 
3. He shall  be medically fit .  
4. He shall  obtain  the necessary security clearance . 
5. He has never been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty .  
6. He shall  hold a firearm proficiency certificate issued by a shooting club licensed in the 
State for non -military  personnel .  
7. He shall  hold a firearm  license .  
8. He shall  have completed the national service or submit a certificate of exemption 
therefrom .  
9. He shall  hold the certificates of education, tr aining and expertise , as identified by the 
Protection Unit according to the nature of f unctions that will be entrusted to them . 
10. He shall  successfully  pass the professional internship approved by the Protection Unit, 
pertaining  to the protection of witnesses and security powers granted to a Security 
Guard.   
 
Article (25)  
Duties and Powers of the Security Guard  
In order to implement  the Protection Programs and prevent a ny harm to the Protected 
Person, the Security Guard  shall, whil e performing his job, carry out the following duties 
and functions:  
1. Securing persons, transport vehicles, luggage or other goods;  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  15 
 2. Retaining materials  found d uring the secur ity, which would inflict damage on the 
safety and security of the Protected Person or the s ecurity, and the Security Guard shall 
deliver such materials to the Protection Unit;  
3. The Security Guard may use force to the extent necessary  and appropriate to carry out 
his duties whenever necessary or required;  
4. The Security Gu ard may  take a person into custody who  illegally carries  or is about to 
carry a firearm, or commits or is about to commit a crime that woul d endanger the 
safety of the Protected Person or inflict damage on the Protection Program;  
5. When practicing his functions and duties, the Security Guard shall  introduce  himself 
mentioning his name, official title  and position , and shall show  his job card e xcept  
where the same would compromise his safety or the safety  of any other person or  be 
at risk or hinder  the implementation of the Protection Program;  
6. For the purpose of implementing the provisions of the present Resolution, the Security 
Guard shall be granted the following powers:  
a. To t ake in to custody persons who endanger the lives of the Protected Persons;  
b. To accompany the Protected Person outside a  penal institution , so that the 
Protected Person  accompanied by th e Security Guard shall be considered to be 
placed under legal guardianship ;  
c. To take into custody the Protected Person if there is sufficient  evidence that 
the Protected Person has escaped f rom the legal protection; and  
d. To access to public premises to carry out security measures  necessary  to 
accompany the Protected Person or protect the site i n which the Protected 
Person exists.    
 
Article (26)  
Funding Budget  
The annual budget of the Protection Unit shall be set in coordination between the 
Ministry and the Ministry of Finance.  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  16 
 Article (27)  
Publication and Entry into Force of the Resolution  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall enter into force as of 
the day following the date of its publication.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us  
Dated: Shawwal 11th, 1444 H. 
Corresponding to: May 11th, 2023 AD . 
  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  17 
 Table (1)  
Classification of Risks  to which the Protected Person may be Exposed  
 
S.N Risk  Level  Risk Description  Protection Measures Taken by 
the Competent Authority  
1 1st level  High;  threatening his life  or 
the lives of his family 
members  or persons having a 
relationship with him .  − Physical protection.   
− Change of residence.  
− Change of workplace.  
− Change of identity.  
− Using technological means 
for remote communication.  
− Any other measures  
approved by the Competent 
Court required  for ensur ing 
the safety of the Protected 
Person.  2 2nd level  Moderate;  threatening his 
physical s afety and security or 
property, or the safety or 
security of family members or 
persons having a relationship 
with him or their property . 
3 3rd level  Low;  threatening his 
reputation or the reputation 
of his famil y members or 
persons having a relationship 
with him .  − Using technological means 
for remote communication.  
− Any other measures 
approved by the Competent 
Court required  for ensur ing 
the safety of the Protected 
Person.  
 
 
  Cabinet Resolution of 2023 on the Executive Regulations of Federal Law of 2020 on the Protection of Witnesses and 
the Like  18 
 Table (2)  
Means for Implementing the Protection Program  
 
S.N Protective Measure s   Means of Protection   Protection Objectives   
1 Physical Protection  Protection by  Security 
Guards or by other 
appropriate means.  Preserving life of the 
Protected Person , the 
lives of his relatives or 
his property.  
2 Change of residence  Change o f residence either 
inside or outside the State.  Helping the Protected 
Person to find a job or 
receive education.  
3 Change of workplace  Providing a new 
appropriate job to the 
Protected Person.  Financial arrangements 
to ensure a reasonable  
standard of li ving for the 
Protected Person 
throughout the 
Protection Program 
period.  
4 Change of identity  Issuing a new identity.  Anonymization  of of the 
Protected Person.  
5 Using means of 
technology for remote 
communication.  − Hearing  of witnesses via 
appropriate  electronic 
means.  
− Change the Protected 
Person’s voice on the 
trial day.  Anonymization  of the  
Protected Person and 
preventing  his 
appearance  in public.  
 