 
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  1 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (13) of 2021  
Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  
 
We, Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,                   President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Upon reviewing the Constitution  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 C oncerning the Competences of Ministries and the Powers 
of Ministers, and any amendments thereto;  
− Federal Law No. (10) of 1973 C oncerning the Federal Supreme Court, and any 
amendments thereto;  
− Federal Law No. (12) of 1976 C oncerning the Police & Security Forces and any 
amendments thereto;  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 1983 C oncerning the Federal Judicial Authority, and any 
amendments thereto;  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 1987 P romulgating the Penal Code, and any amendments 
thereto;  
− Federal Law No. (35) of 1992 P romulgating the Criminal Procedure Law, and any 
amendments thereto;  
− Federal Law No. (43) of 1992 Regulating Punitive Facilitie s; 
− Federal Law No (2) of 2003 C oncerning the State Security Apparatus;  
− Federal Law by Decree No. (11) of 2008 C oncerning Human Resources in the Federal 
Government, and any amendments thereto;  
− Federal Law No. (8) of 2011 Re -organizing  the State Audit Institution;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 2017 C oncerning the Use of Telecommunication in Criminal 
Proceedings;  
− Federal Law No. (10) of 2019 Regulating the Relationship Between Federal and Local 
Judicial Authorities;  
− Federal Law by Decree No. (26) of 2019 C oncerning Public Finance;  
   Upon the proposal of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Presidential Affairs, and the  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  2 
 approval of the Cabinet;  
Have promulgated the following Law by Decree:  
  
Article (1) 
 Definitions  
In application of the provisions of this Law by Decree, the following words and phrases shall 
have the meanings assigned to each of them, unless the context requires otherwise : 
 
State  : United Arab Emirates.  
Court  : Presidential Court.  
Chairman  : Chairman of the Presidential Court.  
Public 
Prosecution  : Federal Public Prosecution.  
Attorney General  : Federation Public Prosecutor.  
Office  : The Federal Judicial Enforcement Office . 
Concerned 
Entities  : Federal and Local Authorities related to the work of the Office.  
 
Director General  :
 Director of the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office.  
 
Office 
Employees  
 : Officers, non- commissioned officers, privates of other ranks, 
guards and civil servants working in the Office.  
 
Officer  : Everyone with the rank of Lieutenant and above.  
Non -commissioned 
Officer  : Everyone whose rank is less than the rank of officer and not 
less than the rank of first policeman.  
Private  : Everyone whose rank is less than the rank of 
non -commissioned officer .  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  3 
 Guard  
 : Every person entrusted with duties of guarding, carrying 
weapons, and using them in accordance with the provisions of 
the Law, without having an official rank.  
Guarding 
Companies  : Companies that provide a security service based on a licence 
issued theret o in accordance with the legislation in force in the 
State.  
  
Article (2) 
 Objectives of the Law  
This Law by Decree aims to:  
1. Support and assist the competent State agencie s in maintaining security and stability in a 
manner that ensures response to the requirements of criminal justice related to security in society.  
2. Assist the Public Prosecution in carrying out its duties, including verifying the occurrence 
of crimes wi thin its jurisdiction, gathering evidence related thereto and looking for 
perpetrators.  
3. Coordinate with the concerned authorities in the field of law enforcement.  
  
Article (3) 
 Establishment of the Office  
1. A federal office named the "Federal Judicial Enforcement Office" shall be established to 
be affiliated with the Public Prosecution. The Office shall have a legal personality, and 
shall enjoy the legal capacity necessary to act, and the financial and administrative independence necessary to achie ve its objectives.  
2. A decision of the Public Prosecutor shall be issued to arm the Office's Employees after 
coordination with the competent authorities in the State, within the limits required by 
the nature of their work.  
  
  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  4 
 Article (4) 
 The Office's Headquarters and Branches  
The Office's headquarters shall be located in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, and the Public 
Prosecutor may issue a resolution to establish branches therefor in any other Emirate upon a 
proposal from the Director General.  
  
Article (5) 
 Competences of the Office  
The Office shall:  
1. Conduct research and investigation of crimes that the Public Prosecution engages in within the jurisdiction of the federal courts in accordance with the provisions of the 
Constitution or Feder al Laws, with the exception of those that fall under the jurisdiction 
of the State's Security Apparatus.  
2. Execute the orders and decisions issued by the Public Prosecution in the crimes referred 
to in Clause (1) of this Article. The local authorities s hall provide the necessary assistance 
to the Office in accordance with the legislation in force in the State to implement said 
decisions and orders.  
3. Enforce criminal judgments issued by federal courts in coordination with the concerned 
authorities.  
4. Coordinate with the competent police departments at the State level.  
5. Secure and guard the headquarters of the federal prosecution offices and courts.  
6. Assume any other tasks assigned thereto by the Public Prosecutor within the limits of its 
com petences and objectives.  
 
Article (6)  
Formation of the Office's Force  
The Office's force shall consist of:  
1. Military officers, non -commissioned officers, privates and guards who are appointed in 
the Office or seconded from the agencies of the Ministry of Interior and the Police and  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  5 
 Security Forces in any of the Emirates.  
2. Civil servants and workers who are appointed or seconded in accordance with the 
regulations and systems in force in the Office.  
  
Article (7) 
 Powers of Office's Employees  
The employees of the Office who are Officers and non -commissioner officers shall have the 
capacity of judicial enforcement officers at the level of the Emirates of the State, in respect 
with the crimes stipulated in article (5) of this Law by Decree. They shall exercise all the 
powers and competences assigned to the judicial enforcement officers stated in the 
afore mentioned Criminal Procedure and Police and Security Force Laws.  
  
Article (8) 
 Director General  
The Office shall have a Director General from among the military personnel, and a federal 
decree shall be issued to name him based on th e nomination of the Public Prosecutor.  
  
Article (9) 
 Director General Competences  
The Director General is responsible for running the Office's work, representing it before 
courts and in its relationship with others. He shall answer to the Public Prosecuto r for the 
proper conduct of all the Office's affairs in accordance with the systems in force, and he shall in particular:  
1. Issue decisions, orders and instructions to the departments affiliated with the Office, its 
units and its employees to achieve the objectives assigned thereto and to organize  the 
workflow therein.  
2. Supervise the implementation of all laws, regulations and systems related to the Office's 
jurisdiction.  
3. Lay down policies and strategic plans related to the work of the Office and submit them  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  6 
 to the Public Prosecutor for approval.  
4. Establish the organizing  rules to ensure the security and confidentiality of information 
related to the Office's activities.  
5. Coordinate and cooperate with all concerned federal and local authorities.  
6. Propose the financial and administrative regulations and systems and the organizational 
structure of the Office and submit them to the Public Prosecutor.  
7. Prepare the inter nal regulations and systems related to the work of the Office and 
submit them to the Public Prosecutor for approval.  
8. Preparing the regulations for delegation of powers, violations and sanctions and submit them to the Public Prosecutor for approval.  
9. Prepare periodic reports on the workflow of the Office and evaluate the annual 
performance of the Office's employees and submit them to the Public Prosecutor.  
10. Prepare the annual draft budget and the final account of the Office and submit them in 
accordance with the legislation in force in the Federal Government.  
11. Approve financial transactions within the limits stipulated by the financial systems and 
regulations in force in the Office and set the rules and procedures related  to the 
implementation of budget items in the purposes allocated thereto.  
12. Provide necessary weapons or equipment to the Office's employees in line with the 
nature of the Office's tasks and competences, in coordination with the competent 
authorities.  
The Director General may delegate some of his competences to one of the Office's senior military personnel, in accordance with what is specified in the regulation of delegation of 
powers approved by the Public Prosecutor.  
  
Article (10)  
 Financial Resourc es & Budget  
The Office's resources shall consist of:  
1. The annual financial sums allocated to the Office from the Court.  
2. Thirty percent (30%) the proceeds of fees, fines and financial penalties as a result of the 
implementation of criminal judgments issued by federal courts.   
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  7 
 3. Any other revenues approved by the Cabinet.  
  
Article (11)  
 Fiscal Year  
The Office's Fiscal Year sh all commence on the first of January and ends on the thirty -first of 
December of each year, provided that the first Fiscal Year shall commence on the date on 
which this Law by Decree enters into force and ends on the thirty -first of December of the 
followi ng year.  
  
Article (12)  
 Finance Control  
The Office is subject to the provisions of financial and administrative control in force in the 
Federal Government.  
  
Article (13)  
 Administrative and Financial Regulations  
1. Notwithstanding  any provision in any other law, the Cabinet shall, upon the proposal of 
the Chairman, issue all the financial and administrative regulations and systems, 
including the human resources regulations of the Office, and shall approve the 
organizational structu re of the Office upon the proposal of the Chairman.  
2. The Office's human resources regulations shall specify the conditions for appointment, military ranks, job grades, the system of promotion and training, controls for 
determining seniority, and other provisions related to their discipline and termination of 
service.  
3. The Public Prosecutor may, upon the proposal of the Director General, grant bonuses to 
the Office's military personnel and civilian employees, in accordance with what is 
decided by the  Office's work systems and financial regulation, within the limits of the  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  8 
 budget approved to the Office.  
4. Where there is no provision in the regulations and systems issued in implementation of 
this Law by Decree, the Office shall be subject to the administrative and financial 
regulation, and contract and procurement systems in force in the Federal Government.  
5. The Cabinet may authorize  the Chairman to issue all or some of the regulations for the 
Office stipulated in this Law by Decree.  
  
Article (14) 
 Filling Office's Positions by Secondment  
1. The secondment of the military personnel stip ulated in Clause (1) of article (6) of this 
Law by Decree may be determined by a decision issued by the Cabinet based on the 
proposal of the Chairman. The secondment decision shall determine its duration and the 
provisions for its renewal and termination in coordination with their employer.  
2. The Public Prosecutor may, upon the proposal of the Director General, second any of the 
military personnel or civil servants at the Ministry of Interior or any of the general police commanders in the Emirates of the  State upon the approval of their employer and in 
accordance with the applicable rules of secondment.  
3. The secondment of military personnel shall be made with the same levels, ranks and all 
their rights and privileges, without prejudice to their salaries and allowances; and the 
period of their service in the Office shall be deemed as related to their service with their employers.  
4. The systems for salaries, raises, allowances, bonuses and retirement pensions in force at 
the authorities from which the  military personnel are seconded to work at the Office 
shall continue to be effective.  
  
Article (14) BIS 
Filling Office's Positions by Appointment  
1. The Office may appoint to the military staff and civilian positions; and all employees of  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  9 
 the Office sh all be subject to the human resources regulations in force in the Office.  
2. The Office's military personnel must spend five (5) years if the Office has sponsored him 
during the study phase, and he may not leave service d uring this period except in cases 
stipulated in the regulations in force in the Office.  
3. The authority competent to appoint employees of the Office from among the military personnel shall be as follows:  
A. From the rank of lieutenant colonel and above,  shall be appointed by a federal 
decree.  
B. From the rank of lieutenant to the rank of major shall be appointed by decision of the Chairman upon the recommendation of the Public Prosecutor.  
C. Non-commissioned officers and privates shall be appointed by decision of the Public 
Prosecutor upon the recommendation of the Director General.  
4. The seniority of officers shall be determined in the decisions or decrees issued for their 
appointment or promo tion to those ranks.  
5. Before starting their duties, military personnel shall take the following oath:  
"I swear by God Almighty to be loyal to the State of the United Arab Emirates and its 
President, to respect its constitution and laws, to work truthfully and honestly, and to 
obey all orders issued to me by my superiors".  
6. The military personnel shall take the oath referred to in the preceding Clause before the 
Public Prosecutor, and in all cases, a report of the oath taking shall be drawn up and 
record ed in a special register.  
7. The Chairman or his authorised representative may appoint a non- citizen officer or 
private if the Office needs his services, in accordance with the regulations in force in the 
Office.  
  
Article (14) BIS (1) 
Termination of Service of Military Members of the Office  
The service of the military members of the Office shall end for one of the following reasons:  
1. Death or the issuance of judgment proving interrupted absence.   
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  10 
 2. Revoking or withdrawing his citizenship of the State.  
3. Reaching the age of sixty (60), and by a decision of the Chairman, service may be 
extended every (2) two years for a period of (8) eight years if the public interest so 
requires.  
4. The expiration of the contract term for the c ontractors or the period of their secondment.  
5. Resignation.  
6. Establishing that they are unable to perform job duties for health reasons according to 
what is decided by the competent medical committee.  
7. Inefficiency in the Office in accordance with what is stipulated in the Office's work regulations and systems.  
8. Absence from work without acceptable justification for a period of ten (10) consecutive 
working days or twenty (20) separate working days du ring one year.  
9. Dismissal from service based on the decision of the Disciplinary Council or sentencing 
the member to a felony or crime against honour or trust.  
10. Referral to retirement by a decree before reaching the age stipulated in Clause (3) o f this 
Article.  
The decision to terminate the service of the employee of the office shall be issued by the 
authority competent to appoint him in accordance with the provisions of this Law by Decree, taking into account the provision of Clause (9) of this Article.  
  
Article  (14) BIS (2) 
Candidates from Police Colleges and Institutes  
1. The Office may sponsor a number of candidates in police colleges and institutes in the 
State in exchange for appointing them to work in the Office. Whoever is appointed from 
among those may not leave work in the Office for a period of (5) five years starting as of the date of appointment.  
2. The candidate and the Office member who has been previously sponsored by the Office shall be, personally or jointly with his guardian, as the case may be, obligated to refund 
the expenses incurred by the Office during the period of sponsorship, in the event that  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  11 
 he leaves his studies without excuse, or if he submits his resignation, or is dismissed 
from the college, institute, or Office within the period  stipulated in Clause (1) of this 
Article, in accordance with what is stipulated in the decision regulating candidate 
welfare affairs, the Office's regulations, and employment contracts.  
3. A decision shall be issued by the Chairman regulating the sponso rship of candidates, 
which shall state in particular the following:  
A. Conditions for selection.  
B. Contracts and undertakings.  
C. Financial allocations.  
D. Rights and duties.  
E. Follow -up and evaluation.  
F. Training and qualification.  
G. Termination of nomination and the consequences of breach of contracts and 
undertakings.  
 
Article (15)  
 Final Provisions  
1. Military personnel working in any of the agencies of the Ministry of Interior and the 
Police and Security Forces in any Emirate may be transferred after the approval of the Competent Authority in their places of work. A decision for the transfer shall be issued 
by the Chairman upon the r ecommendation of the Public Prosecutor.  
2. Where there is no provision in this Law by Decree and the regulations and systems issued in implementation thereof, civilian employees working in the office shall be 
subject to the provisions of the Federal Gove rnment Human Resources Law; whereas 
citizens, both civilian and military shall be subject to the provisions of the Federal  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  12 
 Pensions Laws, as the case may be.  
3. The Office may contract with guarding companies to secure and guard the headquarters 
of the p rosecution offices and federal courts. In carrying out their work, guards and 
guarding companies shall be subject to the supervision and control of the Office, in accordance with the work systems in force in the Office.  
4. The Office shall establish a database of information and data related to the competences of the Office at the federal or local level, in coordination with the concerned authorities, 
and achieve integration with them in exchanging information and data.  
5. Any provision contained in any  other law that violates or contradicts the provisions of 
this Law by Decree shall be repealed.  
 
Article (16)  
The Cabinet shall issue a resolution regarding the proceeds of fees, fines  and financial 
penalties that shall be received by the Office as a result of the implementation of criminal 
judgments issued by federal courts.  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
Federal Law No. ( 13) of 2021 Establishing and Regulating the Federal Judicial Enforcement Office  13 
 Article (17)  
 Entry into Force and Publication  
This Law by Decree shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force six 
months after the date of its publication.  
  
 
 
 
Signed  
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the UAE  
 
Issued by Us at the Palace of the Presidency in Abu Dhabi:  
On: 6 Muharram 1443 H  
Corresponding to: 15 August 2021 AED  
 
 