 
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   1 
   
  Federal Decree Law No. (46) of 2021 on Electronic Transactions and Trust 
Services  
 
We, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan,                    President of the United Arab 
Emirates,  
After perusal of:  
− The Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competencies of the Ministries and Powers of 
the Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 promulgating the Civil Transactions Law, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (10) of 1992 promulgating the Law of Evidence in Civil and 
Commercial Transactions, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (11) of 1992 promulgating the Civil Procedure Code, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (35) of 1992 promulgating the Criminal Procedure Code, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (4) of 2000 on the Emirates Securities and Commodities Authority 
and Market, as amended;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (3) of 2003 Regulating the Telecommunications Sector, as 
amended;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 2006 on Electronic Commerce and Transactions;  
− Federal Law No. (29) of 2006 on the Rights of People with Disabilities, as amended;   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   2 
 − Federal Law No. (4) of 2013 Regulating the Notary Public Profession, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (5) of 2017 on the Use of Remote Communication Technology in 
Criminal Proceedings;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (14) of 2018 on the Central Bank and Organization of 
Financial Institutions and Activities, as amended;  
− Federal Decree Law No. (14) of 2021 Establishing the Federal Authority for Identity, Citizenship, Customs and Port Security; and  
− Based on the proposal of the Minister of Cabinet Affairs and the approval of the Cabinet,  
have issued the following Decree Law:  
  
Chapter One Definitions and General Provisions 
  
Article (1) Definitions  
In applying the provisions of this Decree Law, the following words and expressions shall have the meanings ascribed thereto respectively, unless the context otherwise requires:  
 State:  
 United Arab Emirates.  
 TDRA:  
 Telecommunications and Digital Government Regulatory 
Authority.  
 
 Board:  
 Board of Directors of TDRA.  
  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   3 
  Chairman:  
 Chairman of the Board of Directors of TDRA.  
 
 Government 
Authorities:  
 Federal and local government authorities.  
 
 Competent 
Authorities:  
 Government Authorities responsible for matters related to 
data protection and electronic security in the State, and the 
Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship, as the case may 
be. 
 
 Federal Authority 
for Identity and 
Citizenship:  
 The Federal Authority for Identity, Citizenship, Customs and 
Port Security.  
 
 Electronic:  
 Electromagnetic, photoelectric, digital, optical, or the like.  
 
 Electronic 
Transactions:  
 Any transaction that is made, executed, provided or issued in 
whole or in part in electronic form, including contracts, 
agreements and other transactions and services.  
 
 Electronic Dealing:  
 Creating, signing, sending, receiving, storing or retrieving 
Electronic Documents.  
 
 Information Any electronic tool for performing logic and arithmetic  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   4 
 Technology Means:  
 operations or for storing, sending and receiving data.  
 
 Electronic 
Document:  
 An electronic record or message, or an information statement 
that is created, stored, extracted, copied, sent, communicated 
or received by Information Technology Means, on any 
medium, and is retrievable in a readable manner.  
 
 Data:  
 A set of facts, measurements and observations in the form of 
numbers, letters, symbo ls, or special shapes that are collected 
to be used.  
 
 Electronic 
Information:  
 Any data or information that can be stored, processed, 
generated and transmitted by Information Technology Means 
in the form of text, images, audio, video, numbers, letters, 
symbols, signs and else.  
 
 Electronic 
Information System:  
 A set of Information Programs and Information Technology 
Means designed to create, process, manage, store and 
exchange Electronic Information or the like.  
 
 Originator:  
 A person, by whom, or on w hose behalf, the Electronic 
Document is created or sent, whatever the case may be, but 
does not include a person who provides services related to 
processing, sending or storing such Electronic Document or  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   5 
 other relevant services.  
 
 Addressee:  
 A person wh o is intended by the Originator to receive the 
Electronic Document, but does not include a person who 
provides services related to receiving, processing or storing 
Electronic Documents or other relevant services.  
 
 Information 
Program:  
 A set of data, ins tructions and commands processable by 
Information Technology Means, intended to perform a certain 
task.  
 
 Automated 
Electronic Medium:  
 An Electronic Information System that operates automatically 
and independently, in whole or in part, without interventi on 
by any natural person at the time of operation or response.  
 
 Automated 
Electronic 
Transactions:  
 Transactions made or executed in whole or in part by an 
Automated Electronic Medium.  
 
 Authentication 
Procedures:  
 Electronic procedures that aim to veri fy the identity of a person 
or his/her legal representative or the authenticity and integrity 
of the data received in any electronic form, including any 
procedure that uses algorithms, symbols, words, identification 
numbers, encryption and other data prote ction measures.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   6 
  Electronic 
Identification 
System:  
 Technical and organizational measures that use a person's 
data to verify his/her identity and capacity for the purpose of 
issuing his/her Electronic Identifiers.  
 
 Electronic Identifier:  
 Any material or immaterial identifier issued through the 
Electronic Identification System that includes personal 
identification elements or data for the purpose of verifying a 
person's identity.  
 
 Digital Identity:  
 A special Electronic Identifier that gives a person access to 
carry out Electronic Transactions, signatures and seals with 
government or non -government authorities that adopt such 
an identifier to provide their services.  
 
 Trust Services:  
 The electronic services specified under Clause (1) of Article 
(17) hereof which a Trust Service Provider is licensed to 
provide according to the License issued thereto.  
 
 Qualified Trust 
Services:  
 The electronic services specified under Clause (2) of Article 
(17) hereof which a Qualified Trust Service Provider is licens ed 
to provide according to the License issued thereto.  
 
 Electronic Signature 
Authentication A document issued in electronic form by a Trust Service 
Provider that links between the verification data of the  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   7 
 Certificate:  
 Electronic Signature and a specific  person and attributes it to 
his/her Electronic Signature, confirming the name and identity 
of such person or his/her pseudonym.  
 
 Qualified Electronic 
Signature 
Authentication 
Certificate:  
 An electronic signature authentication document issued by a 
Qual ified Trust Service Provider based on the Electronic 
Identification System and Authentication Procedures that 
meets the conditions approved by TDRA in this regard.  
 
 Electronic Signature:  
 A signature consisting of letters, numbers, symbols, sound, 
finger print, or an electronic form processing system, attached 
to, or logically associated with an Electronic Document, 
verifying the identity of the Signatory and his/her approval of 
the information contained in such document.  
 
 Reliable Electronic 
Signature:  
 An electronic signature that meets the conditions specified in 
article (19) hereof.  
 
 Qualified Electronic 
Signature:  
 A Reliable Electronic Signature that is created by a qualified 
electronic signature device, and is issued based on a Qualified 
Electron ic Signature Authentication Certificate.  
 
 Electronic Seal:  
 Data in electronic form that is attached to or logically 
associated with an Electronic Document, used to verify the  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   8 
 identity of the relevant person and the authenticity and 
integrity of the data  source in such document.  
 
 Reliable Electronic 
Seal:  
 An electronic seal that meets the conditions specified in Article 
(19) hereof.  
 
 Qualified Electronic 
Seal:  
 A Reliable Electronic Seal that is created by a qualified 
electronic seal device, and is i ssued based on a Qualified 
Electronic Seal Authentication Certificate.  
 
 Electronic Seal 
Authentication 
Certificate : 
 A document issued in electronic form by a Trust Service 
Provider that links between the verification data of the 
electronic seal and a sp ecific legal person, confirming the 
name and identity of such person.  
 
 Qualified Electronic 
Seal Authentication 
Certificate:  
 An electronic seal authentication document that meets the 
conditions approved by TDRA in this regard and is issued by a 
Qualifie d Trust Service Provider based on the Electronic 
Identification System and Authentication Procedures.  
 
 Electronic Signature 
or Seal Creation 
Data:  
 Unique electronic data that is owned, supervised and 
controlled by the Signatory and used to create an ele ctronic 
signature or seal.  
  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   9 
  Signatory:  
 A person who creates an electronic signature or seal.  
 
 Electronic Signature 
or Seal Device:  
 Systems, software or devices that are used to create an 
electronic signature or seal of its various levels in accord ance 
with this Decree Law.  
 
 Qualified Electronic 
Time Stamp:  
 Data in electronic form which binds an Electronic Document 
to a particular time establishing evidence that its content 
existed at that time.  
 
 Qualified Electronic 
Delivery Service:  
 A servic e for the transmission of data between persons by 
electronic means that provides evidence of sending and 
receiving the data, protects transmitted data against the risk of 
loss, theft, damage or any unauthorized alterations, and 
confirms the identity of suc h persons.  
 
 Person:  
 A natural or legal person.  
 
 Relying Party:  
 A person who relies on electronic Trust Services to provide 
services or transactions or to perform any other act.  
 
 Qualified Trust 
Mark:  
 A mark or logo that proves that the Trust Servi ce Provider is 
qualified by TDRA to provide qualified electronic Trust 
Services.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   10 
  
 Trust Service 
Provider:  
 A person who is licensed by TDRA, in accordance with the 
provisions of this Decree Law and the Executive Regulations 
thereof, to provide one or mor e Trust Services.  
 
 Qualified Trust 
Service Provider:  
 A Trust Service Provider who is granted the qualified status by 
TDRA to provide Trust Services and Qualified Trust Services, 
according to the status granted thereto.  
 
 Licensee:  
 A legal person who i s licensed by TDRA in accordance with the 
provisions of this Decree Law and the Executive Regulations 
thereof.  
 
 License:  
 An authorization issued pursuant to the provisions of this 
Decree Law and the Executive Regulations thereof allowing 
the Licensee to  proceed with any Trust Services or Qualified 
Trust Services.  
 
 UAE Trust List:  
 A list prepared and published by TDRA that determines Trust 
Service Providers, Qualified Trust Service Providers, the 
services and data related thereto, the status of license  and their 
compliance with this Decree Law, the Executive Regulations 
thereof, and the decisions issued by TDRA in implementation 
thereof.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   11 
  
 Compliance 
Assessment:  
 An assessment made by TDRA, or any other entity authorized 
thereby, to ascertain whether t he license applicants and 
Licensees comply with the conditions, controls and standards 
approved under this Decree Law and the decisions issued in 
implementation thereof.  
 
 Coordinated 
Universal Time 
(UTC ): 
 The time scale, based on the standard second, as  defined by 
the international standards.  
 
 
Article (2) Applicability of the Decree Law  
1. The provisions of this Decree Law shall apply to:  
a. Persons who adopt Electronic Transactions , Trust Services and Qualified Trust 
Services specified in accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law.  
b. Electronic Transactions, Electronic Documents, Trust Services, Qualified Trust 
Services, and the necessary procedures for completion thereof.  
2. The Cabinet may add, delete or exclude any transaction, document, service or procedure 
mentioned in Paragraph (B) of Clause (1) of this Article, and may exclude any entity from 
all or some of the provisions of this Decree Law.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   12 
   
Article (3) Objectives of the Decree Law  
This Decree Law aims to:  
1. Enhance trust, encourage and facilitate Electronic Transactions of all kinds, and protect 
the rights of customers.  
2. Keep pace with technological development to enhance Electronic Transactions in all sectors.  
3. Promote digital transformation, investment, and provide electronic services to the 
public.  
 
 
Article (4) Competencies of TDRA  
For the purposes of applying the provisions of this Decree Law, TDRA shall have the 
following competencies:  
1. Regulating the work and activities of the Licensees, including issuing, renewing, amending, suspending and canceling Licenses, exempting from licensing or some or all 
of its conditions, and granting or withdrawing the qualified status, after ensuring that the 
Licensees comply with the controls, standards and requirements agreed upon with the 
Competent Authorities.  
2. Issuing controls, procedures and standards related to the Electronic Identification 
System, Authentication Procedures and Digital Ident ity, after coordination with the 
Competent Authorities.  
3. Issuing controls, procedures and standards related to Trust Services and Qualified Trust 
Services, in particular the mechanism for creating, saving and validating Electronic  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   13 
 Signatures, Electronic Seals, Electronic Documents electronically signed or sealed, and 
Qualified Trust Mark specifications, after coordination with the Competent Authorities.  
4. Assessing license applicants or those licensed thereby or by the compliance assessment 
body and setting controls and conditions for regulating the work of compliance 
assessment bodies.  
5. Preparing, publishing and updating the UAE Trust List of Licensees, Trust Services and 
Qualified Trust Services.  
6. Supervising, controlling and inspecting Licensees, provided that coordination is made with the Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates regarding the inspection of the 
financial institutions licensed thereby.  
7. Receiving and adjudicating complaints and taking the necessary procedures and 
measures with respect thereto.  
8. Any other competencies assigned thereto by the Cabinet.  
  
 
Chapter Two Electronic Transactions  
  
Article (5) Electronic Documents  
1. An Electronic Document shall not lose its legal force or enforceability for being in 
electronic form.  
2. The data contained in Electronic Documents shall not lose its legal force for being 
received, whenever the details of such data are accessible, within the Electronic 
Information System of its Originator, with the Electronic Documents indicating the way 
of such access.  
3. Nothing in this Decree Law requires a person to use an Electronic Document without the  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   14 
 consent thereof.  
4. A person's consent to the use of the Electronic Document may be inferred from any 
conduct that indicates such consent.  
  
Article (6) Storage of Electronic Documents 
1. If any legislatio n in force in the State requires the storage of a document, record or 
information, for any reason, this requirement shall be fulfilled if that document, record 
or information is stored in the form of an Electronic Document, while observing the 
following:  
a. Storing the Electronic Document in the form in which it is created, sent or received, 
or in any form that may prove that it accurately represents the information originally 
created, sent or received.  
b. Keeping the information stored in a way that allows  it to be used and referenced 
later.  
c. Storing such information, if any, that enables identification of the Originator of the 
Electronic Document, the destination thereof, and the date and time of sending and 
receiving same.  
2. The obligation to store d ocuments, records or information in accordance with Paragraph 
(C) of Clause (1) of this Article shall not extend to include any information that is necessarily and automatically created merely to enable the sending or receiving of the 
document.  
3. Any pe rson may fulfill the requirements stipulated in Clause (1) of this Article by using 
the services of any other person, as long as such person complies with the conditions 
stipulated in that Clause.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   15 
 4. Government Authorities may set any additional requirem ents, that do not conflict with 
the provisions of this Decree Law, for maintaining Electronic Documents that fall under 
their jurisdiction.  
  
Article (7) Writing  
If any legislation in force in the State requires any information, statement, document, record, transaction or evidence to be in writing, or stipulates certain consequences in the event of 
no writing, this requirement shall be considered met by the Electro nic Document if the 
information contained therein is stored in a way that allows it to be used and referenced.  
 
 
Article (8) Signatures and Seals on Electronic Documents  
1. If any legislation in force in the State requires the affixation of a signature or seal on a document or record, or stipulates certain consequences in the event of not signing or 
sealing a document or record, this requirement shall be considered met in the following 
cases:  
a. Using a means of identifying a pe rson and indicating the intention of such person 
with respect to the information contained in the Electronic Document.  
b. If the means used meets either of the following two conditions:  
1) To be qualified for the purpose for which the Electronic Document is created or sent.  
2) To meet the requirements set forth in Paragraph (A) of Clause (1) of this Article, either alone or with any other evidence.  
2. Any person may use any form of electronic authentication unless the law provides 
otherwise.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   16 
   
Article (9) Original Document  
If any legislation in force in the State requires the submission or storage of any document, 
record, information or message in its original form, this requirement shall be considered met 
by the Electronic Document in the following cases:  
1. If there is technical evidence confirming the integrity of the information contained in the Electronic Document since the time when the document, record or information is 
created for the first time in its final form as an Electronic Document.  
2. If the Electronic Document allows presenting the information required to be submitted 
whenever requested.  
3. If there are any additional conditions related to the submission or storage of Electronic 
Documents as determined by the Government Authority that supervises the submission 
or storage of such records or information.  
 
 
Article (10) Creation and Validity of Contracts  
1. For contracting purposes, offer and acceptance may be expressed electronically.  
2. A contract shall not lose its validity, evidential weight or enforceability merely because it is made in the form of one or more Electronic Documents.  
 
 
Article (11) Automated Electronic Transactions 
1. A contract may be made between Automated Electronic  Mediums that include one or 
more Electronic Information Systems that are prepared and programmed in advance for 
this purpose. Such contract shall be valid, enforceable and legally effective even in the  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   17 
 absence of personal or direct interference by any nat ural person in the process of making 
the contract in these systems.  
2. A contract may be made between an automated Electronic Information System in the 
possession of a particular person and another person if the latter knows, or is supposed 
to know, that such system will make or execute the contract automatically.  
  
Article (12) Attribution  
1. An Electronic Document is considered issued by the Originator if he has issued it 
himself.  
2. In the relationship between the Originator and Addressee, an Electronic Document shall 
be considered issued by the Originator in the following cases:  
a. If it is sent by a person who has the authority to act on behalf of the Originator.  
b. If it is sent by  an electronic medium automated and programmed to operate 
automatically by or on behalf of the Originator.  
3. In the relationship between the Originator and Addressee, the Addressee shall have the 
right to consider the Electronic Document as issued by th e Originator and to act on this 
basis in the following cases:  
a. If the Addressee correctly applies a procedure previously approved by the 
Originator for the purpose of ensuring that the Electronic Document has been 
issued by the Originator for this purpose.  
b. If the Electronic Document received by the Addressee has resulted from the actions of a person who, based on his relationship with the Originator or any 
agent of the Originator, can access a method used by the Originator to prove that 
the Electronic Document is issued thereby.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   18 
 4. The provisions of Clause (3) of this Article shall not apply in the following cases:  
a. If the Addressee receives a notification from the Originator that the Electronic 
Document has not been issued thereby, provided that the Addressee has been 
given reasonable time to act according to the notification.  
b. If the Addressee has known, or should have known, that the Electronic 
Document is not issued by the Originator.  
c. If it is unreasonable for the Addressee to consider the Electronic Document to be issued by the Originator or to act on this basis.  
5. If an Electronic Document is issued or considered to be issued by the Originator or if the Addressee has the right to act on this basis in accordance with Clauses (1), (2) and (3) of 
this Article, the Addressee may, within the framework of its relationship with the Originator, consider the Electronic Document received as the document that the 
Originator has inten ded to send and to act on this basis.  
6. The Addressee may consider every Electronic Document received thereby as a separate 
document and to act on this basis. Clause (7) of this Article shall not apply if the 
Addressee has known, or should have known, t hat the Electronic Document is a second 
copy.  
7. The provisions of Clauses (5) and (6) of this Article shall not apply if the Addressee has known, or should have known, that an error has occurred in the Electronic Document as 
a result of a technical failure during transmission.  
 
 
Article (13) Acknowledgment of Receipt  
1. If the Originator has not agreed with the Addressee that the acknowledgment of receipt 
shall be in a certain form or manner, the acknowledgment of receipt may be made by the  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   19 
 following:  
a. Any message from the Addressee, whether by electronic, automated or any other 
means.  
b. Any conduct on the part of the Addressee which shall be sufficient to notify the 
Originator of receipt of the Electronic Document.  
2. If the Originator has stated that the Electronic Document is conditional on receiving an 
acknowledgment of receipt, it shall not have any legal effect until the Originator receives 
the acknowledgment.  
3. Without prejudice to the provision of Clause (2) of this Article, if the Originator requests an acknowledgment of receipt without specifying a date for receiving the 
acknowledgment within a reasonable period, and unless a particular time has been specified or agreed upon, the Originator may send a notification to the Addressee statin g 
that it has not received any acknowledgment of receipt and specifying a reasonable period during which the acknowledgment must be received. If the acknowledgment of 
receipt is not received within the specified period, then it may deal with the Electronic  
Document as if it has not been sent.  
4. The provisions of Clauses (1), (2) and  (3) of this Article shall apply in cases where the 
Originator has requested or agreed with the Addressee, before or when sending the 
Electronic Document or through the Electronic Document, to send an acknowledgment 
of receipt of the Electronic Document.  
5. If the Originator receives an acknowledgment of receipt from the Addressee, the 
Addressee shall be deemed to have received the relevant Electronic Document, unless 
proven otherwise, and an acknowledgment of receipt does not mean acknowledgment 
of the c ontent of the Electronic Document.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   20 
 6. If the acknowledgment of receipt received by the Originator states that the relevant 
Electronic Document has met the technical conditions, whether agreed upon or specified in the applicable standards, those condition s shall be considered met, unless proven 
otherwise.  
7. The provisions of this Article shall not apply if there is an agreement between the 
Originator of the Electronic Document and the Addressee to the contrary.  
  
Article (14) Time and Place of Sending a nd Receiving Electronic Documents  
1. Unless an agreement is made between the Originator and Addressee on the place and 
time of sending and receiving the Electronic Document, the following shall apply:  
a. The Electronic Document shall be considered sent w hen it enters an information 
system that is not under the control of the Originator or the person who has sent 
the document on behalf of the Originator.  
b. The time of receiving the Electronic Document shall be determined according to the following:  
1) If the Addressee has designated an information system for the purpose of 
receiving the Electronic Document, the Electronic Document shall be 
considered received at the time it enters the designated information system or at the time the Addressee extracts the Electronic Document, if it is sent to 
an information system belonging thereto, other than the information system 
designated to receive the document.  
2) If the Addressee has not designated an information system, the Electronic 
Document shall be considered d elivered when it enters an information 
system belonging to the Addressee, regardless of the difference between the  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   21 
 place where the information system is located and the place where the 
Electronic Document is considered to have been received in accordance w ith 
Clause (2) of this Article.  
2. Unless otherwise agreed between the Originator and Addressee, the Electronic 
Document shall be considered to have been sent from the place where the Originator 
has its place of business and received at the place where t he Addressee has its place of 
business.  
3. In applying the provisions of this Article:  
a. If the Originator or Addressee has more than one place of business, the place of 
business shall be the one that is most closely connected with the relevant 
transact ion or the principal place of business if there is no such transaction.  
b. If the Originator or Addressee does not have a place of business, it shall be 
considered their respective habitual residences.  
c. The habitual residence of a legal person shall be the headquarters or the place 
where it is incorporated.  
   
Chapter Three Service Provider Licensing  
   
Article (15) 
1. No person may provide Trust Services except after obtaining a license from TDRA in 
accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law and the Executive Regulations 
thereof.  
2. No person may provide Qualified Trust Services except after obtaining a license from TDRA and the qualified status in accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law and  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   22 
 the Executive Regulations thereof.  
3. The Executive Regulations of this Decree Law  shall set the conditions, controls, 
standards and procedures for the licensing referred to in this Article.  
  
Article (16) 
1. The Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship shall set the controls, standards, and 
requirements that must be met by the license applicant, service provider, or Qualified 
Service Provider in the following two cases:  
a. Trust Services or Qualified Tru st Services directed to the government sector.  
b. Trust Services or Qualified Trust Services that depend on the data or services of the Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship.  
2. TDRA shall verify that the license applicant, service provider or Q ualified Service 
Provider complies with the controls, standards and requirements stipulated in Clause (1) 
of this Article.  
3. TDRA shall suspend or cancel the License granted to a Trust Service Provider or a Qualified Trust Service Provider in the event of a violation of or non -compliance with 
the controls, standards and requirements stipulated in Clause (1) of this Article.  
4. TDRA shall coordinate with the Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship in all cases 
stipulated in this Article.  
 
 
Article (17) Trust Services and Qualified Trust Services  
Trust Services and Qualified Trust Services shall be determined according to the following:  
1. Trust Services, including the following:  
a. Creating an Electronic Signature and a Reliable Electronic  Signature.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   23 
 b. Issuing an Authentication Certificate for the Reliable Electronic Signature.  
c. Creating an Electronic Seal and a Reliable Electronic Seal.  
d. Issuing an Authentication Certificate for the Reliable Electronic Seal.  
e. Issuing an Authentication Certificate for the website.  
2. Qualified Trust Services, including the following:  
a. Qualified Electronic Signature creation services, including the following:  
1) Issuing an Authentication Certificate for the Qualified Electronic Signature.  
2) Issuing the Electronic Signature Device.  
3) Managing the Qualified Electronic Signature Device remotely.  
4) Storing data of the Qualified Electronic Signature.  
5) Validating the Qualified Electronic Signature.  
b. Qualified Electronic Seal creation service s, including the following:  
1) Issuing an Authentication Certificate for the Qualified Electronic Seal.  
2) Issuing the Qualified Electronic Seal Device.  
3) Managing the Qualified Electronic Seal Device remotely.  
4) Storing data of the Qualified Electronic Seal.  
5) Validating the Qualified Electronic Seal.  
c. Qualified Electronic Time Stamp creation service.  
d. Qualified Electronic Delivery Service.  
  
Article (18) Admissibility and Authenticity of Electronic Evidence and Trust 
Services  
1. The  admissibility of an Electronic Document, Electronic Signature, Electronic Seal or 
Electronic Transactions as evidence in any legal proceeding shall not be precluded by the  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   24 
 mere fact that it is received in electronic form and processed through Trust Servic es and 
Qualified Trust Services.  
2. A hard copy of an official Electronic Document shall be considered conclusive evidence 
to the extent that it is identical to the original of such document.  
3. A Qualified Electronic Signature shall be considered equal in its authenticity to a manual signature and shall have the same legal effect so long as it meets the conditions 
stipulated in this Decree Law and the Executive Regulations thereof.  
4. A Qualified Electronic Seal of a legal person shall be considered evidence of the validity 
and integrity of the original information to which the Electronic Seal is linked.  
5. A qualified date and time shall be verified through the Qualified Electronic Time Stamp whenever it is linked to correct data.  
6. The Qualified Electronic Delivery Service shall be considered valid and legally effective if 
it meets the conditions stipulated in this Decree Law and the Executive Regulations 
thereof.  
7. The Reliable Electronic Signature and the Reliable Electronic Seal shall be considered valid and legally effective if the conditions stipulated in this Decree Law and the 
Executive Regulations thereof are met.  
8. Trust Services and Qualified Trust Services shall meet the conditions stipulated in this 
Decree Law and the Executive Regulations thereof.  
 
 
Article (19) Reliable Electronic Signature and Reliable Electronic Seal  
An Electronic Signature or Electronic Seal shall be reliable if the following conditions are 
met:  
1. Be linked to, and fall under the full and exclusive control of, the Signatory.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   25 
 2. Be capable of identifying the Signatory.  
3. Be linked to the signed data in a way that can detect any alteration to such data.  
4. Be created using technical and security techniques in accordance with the technical 
requirements specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
5. Any other conditions specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (20) Qualified Electronic Signature and Qualified Electronic Seal  
1. A Qualified Electronic Signature or Qualified Electronic Seal shall be valid if the 
following conditions are met:  
a. The Electronic Signature and Electronic Seal are created based on a valid and 
qualified Authentication Certificate in accordance with the provisions of this 
Decree Law.  
b. The Electronic Signature and Electronic Seal are created using a Qualified Electronic Signature or Seal Device.  
c. The data proving the validity of the Qualified Electronic Signature and Qualified Electronic Seal is identical to the data submitted to the Relying Party.  
d. The data identifying the Signatory in the qualified Authentication Certificate is 
properly submitted to the Relying Party, and in case of using pseudonymization 
techniques, the Relying Party must be informed.  
e. It is created using technical and security techniques in accordance with the 
requirements specified by the Exec utive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
f. Any other conditions specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
2. The Qualified Electronic Signature and Qualified Electronic Seal validation service shall 
be provided by the Qualified Trust Service Provider in accordance with the controls  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   26 
 specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
3. The Qualified Electronic Signature and Qualified Electronic Seal validation service shall 
provide the Relying Party with the correct result to valid ate the signature and seal in an 
automated, effective and reliable manner, and ensure the absence of any hacks.  
4. The validation result of the Qualified Electronic Signature and Qualified Electronic Seal 
shall be signed with a Reliable Electronic Signat ure or Reliable Electronic Seal by a 
Qualified Service Provider or by any other method specified by the Executive 
Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (21) Conditions for the Qualified Electronic Signature and Qualified 
Electronic Seal Device 
The Qualified Electronic Signature or Qualified Electronic Seal Device shall meet the following conditions:  
1. Ensuring the confidentiality of the Electronic Signature or Seal Creation Data used.  
2. Protecting the Electronic Signature or Seal Creation Data against any use by third parties 
or forgery using the available technology.  
3. The Electronic Signature or Seal shall be created once only.  
4. The data to be signed shall not be modified or withheld from the Signatory before the signing or sealing  process.  
5. The Electronic Signature Creation Data shall be managed or created on behalf of the Signatory by the Qualified Trust Service Provider in accordance with the conditions, 
standards and procedures specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
6. Complying with the approved controls and procedures for the security and protection of  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   27 
 information.  
7. Any other conditions specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (22) Storing the Data of Qualified Electronic Signatures and 
Qualified Electronic Seals  
A Qualified Trust Service Provider shall, when providing a data storage service for Qualified 
Electronic Signatures and Qualified Electronic Seals, comply with the procedur es and 
techniques that maintain the continuity of Trust Services and ensure the continued validity of the Qualified Electronic Signature in accordance with the conditions and period specified 
by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
 
 
Article (23) Qualified Electronic Time Stamp  
The Qualified Electronic Time Stamp shall meet the following conditions:  
1. The date and time are linked to the data in a way that prevents undetectable alteration of 
the data.  
2. Relying on an acc urate time source linked to UTC.  
3. To be signed or sealed using a Reliable Electronic Signature or a Reliable Electronic Seal 
by a Qualified Trust Service Provider, or by any other method specified by the Executive 
Regulations of this Decree Law.  
4. Any other conditions specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (24) Qualified Electronic Delivery Service  
The Qualified Electronic Delivery Service shall meet the following conditions:   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   28 
 1. To be provided by one or more Qualified Trust Service Providers.  
2. Ensuring the identification of the sender based on a high level of security and trust, as 
specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
3. Ensuring the identification of the Addressee before the data is delivered.  
4. Signing or sealing the sent data with a Reliable Electronic Signature or a Reliable 
Electronic Seal by a Qualified Trust Service Provider or by any other method specified by 
the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
5. Notifying both the sender and recipient of any necessary change in the sent data as 
required by the service.  
6. Stamping the time of sending and receiving data and any alterations thereto with a Qualified Electronic Time Stamp.  
7. Any other conditions specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (25) Authentication Certificates  
1. An Authentication Certificate shall no longer be valid from the date of its cancellation. Such cancellation shall not apply retroactively to any Electronic Signature or Electronic 
Seal made based on such certificate prior to that date.  
2. No person may publish an Authentication Certificate if he knows that it is invalid or 
cancelled, or if the p erson to whom it is addressed has refused to receive it.  
   
 
Article (26) Qualified Trust Mark  
A Qualified Trust Service Provider shall, when using a Qualified Trust Mark, comply with the 
following requirements:   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   29 
 1. Indicating the Qualified Trust Services  it is licensed to provide.  
2. Linking the mark to an electronic link available to the public through its website that 
leads to the UAE Trust Services List published by TDRA.  
  
Article (27) UAE Trust List  
1. TDRA shall create a list of the Licensees and their services and a list of the Electronic Identification System and the Qualified Electronic Signature and Seal Devices, include 
them in the UAE Trust List and publish them by any means it deems appropriate.  
2. The two lists referred to in Clause (1) of this Article must include the basic information 
about the Qualified Trust Service Providers, the Qualified Trust Services provided 
thereby, and the details of the Qualified Electronic Signature and Qualified Electronic 
Seal Devices.  
3. The Executive Regulations shall set the controls and conditions for the inclusion of 
Licensees, Trust Services and Qualified Trust Services in the UAE Trust List.  
 
 
Article (28) Acceptance of Electronic Dealing and Trust Services  
1. Nothing in this Decree Law requires a person to use or accept Electronic Dealing. 
However, a person's consent to Electronic Dealing may be inferred from any conduct 
that indicates such consent.  
2. A person may use any form of Electronic Signatures or Electronic Seals, unless the 
legislation in force provides otherwise.  
3. The Digital Identity issued in accordance with the requirements of the Electronic 
Identification System approved by TDRA, in coordination with the Federal Authority for 
Identity and Citizenship, shall be adopted as a means of accessing the electronic services  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   30 
 and transactions provided by Government Authorities.  
4. The use of the Digital Identity issued through the Electronic I dentification System to 
access government electronic services shall be considered to meet the requirements for 
identification and personal presence if the Digital Identity provides the level of trust and 
security required for dealing with those services in  accordance with the provisions of this 
Decree Law.  
5. Government Authorities shall accept the use of Electronic Signatures, Electronic Seals, 
Digital Identities of persons or Electronic Documents in the electronic services provided 
thereby, by other Government Authorities or by whoever is delegated thereby, in 
accordance with the form, standards and levels of trust and security determined by 
TDRA.  
6. Government Authorities may, according to their respective areas of competence 
esta blished in the legislation in force, make Electronic Transactions, which will have the 
same legal effect, in the following cases:  
a. Accepting the filing, submission, creation or storage of documents in the form of 
electronic records.  
b. Issuing any docume nt, permit, license, decision or approval in the form of 
electronic records.  
c. Collecting fees or paying any other money in electronic form.  
d. Tendering and receiving and awarding bids related to government procurement 
electronically.  
7. If the Governm ent Authority decides to carry out any of the acts mentioned in Clause (6) 
of this Article, it may specify the following:  
a. The way or form in which such Electronic Documents shall be created, filed,  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   31 
 stored, submitted or issued.  
b. The controls, conditions, and procedures for tendering, receiving and awarding 
bids and concluding government procurements.  
c. The form of the Electronic Signature and Seal, and the level of security required.  
d. The way and form  in which such signature or seal shall be affixed to the 
Electronic Document and the technical criteria that must be met by the Trust Service Provider to whom the document is submitted for storage and filing.  
e. Processes, controls and procedures of monito ring related to the safety, security 
and confidentiality of Electronic Documents, payments or fees.  
f. Terms and conditions related to sending paper documents, if required in relation to the Electronic Documents for payments and fees.  
8. Government Autho rities shall archive Electronic Documents affixed with a Reliable or 
Qualified Electronic Signature or with a Reliable or Qualified Electronic Seal in accordance with the controls specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
 
 
Article (29) Responsibilities of the Relying Party  
1. A Relying Party shall be held responsible for the consequences of the failure thereof to take the necessary measures to ensure the validity and enforceability of an Authentication Certificate and to observe any rest rictions thereon.  
2. A Relying Party shall be held responsible for the consequences of the failure thereof to take the necessary measures to ensure the validity and enforceability of a Digital Identity 
when using it.  
3. A Relying Party, in order to tru st and rely on an Electronic Signature or Electronic Seal, 
shall observe the following:   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   32 
 a. Determining the security level of the Electronic Signature or Electronic Seal 
according to the nature, value or importance of the transaction that is intended to be confirmed by the Electronic Signature or Electronic Seal.  
b. Taking the necessary measures to verify the identity of the Signatory and the 
validity of the Authentication Certificate.  
c. Taking the necessary measures to verify that the Electronic Signature or 
Electronic Seal used meets the requirements.  
d. Whether it knows, or is supposed to know , that the Electronic Signature, 
Electronic Seal or Electronic Authentication Certificate has been breached or 
cancelled.  
e. Any previous agreement or transaction between the Signatory and the Relying 
Party that has relied on the Electronic Signature, Elec tronic Seal or Authentication 
Certificate.  
f. Any other relevant factors.  
4. If the reliance on the Electronic Signature or Electronic Seal is not acceptable, according to Clause (3) of this Article, the party who has relied on them shall bear the risk o f 
invalidity of such signature or seal and shall be responsible for any damage caused to the owner of the Electronic Signature or Electronic Seal or third parties.  
 
 
Article (30) Responsibilities of the Signatory  
A Signatory shall be held responsible for t he consequences of the failure thereof if the 
following measures are not observed:  
1. Exercising due diligence to avoid any unauthorized use of the Electronic Signature or 
Seal Creation Data.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   33 
 2. Notifying the concerned L icensee if it becomes known that there are doubts about 
the level of security or validity of the Electronic Signature or Seal Creation Data 
thereof that is used to create such signature or seal.  
3. Ensuring the accuracy and integrity of any material data provided thereby in relation 
to the Authentication Certificate throughout its validity period, in cases where the 
use of this certificate is required.  
4. Reporting any changes to, or lack of confidentiality of, the information contained in the Authentic ation Certificate.  
5. Using valid Authentication Certificates.  
 
Article (31) Responsibilities of the Digital Identity Owner  
The owner of the Digital Identity shall be held responsible for the consequences of the failure thereof if the following measures are not taken:  
1. Exercising due diligence to avoid any unauthorized use of the Digital Identity.  
2. Notifying the concern ed parties and persons immediately if it becomes known that 
there are doubts about the level of security of the Digital Identity used in an electronic service or transaction.  
3. Ensuring the accuracy and integrity of any material data provided thereby in  relation 
to the Digital Identity throughout its validity period.
    
 
Article (32) Availability of Trust Services for People with Disabilities  
Trust Services and Qualified Trust Services shall, whenever possible, be made available to 
natural persons with d isabilities, in accordance with the procedures and techniques that suit  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   34 
 their needs or the nature of their special situation.  
    
Article (33) Electronic Identification System Security Levels  
1. The levels of security and trust of the Electronic Identification System and the Digital 
Identity issued thereby are three: low, medium and high, according to the following 
general classifications:  
a. Low level: means a low level of security and trust in t he Electronic Identification 
System that provides a limited degree of trust and acceptability of the alleged 
identity of a person, and refers to technical and administrative standards and 
procedures aimed at reducing the risks of misuse or manipulation of that identity.  
b. Medium level: means a medium level of security and trust in the Electronic 
Identification System that provides a medium degree of trust and acceptability of 
the alleged identity of a person, and refers to technical and administrative 
stan dards and procedures aimed at minimizing the risks of misuse or 
manipulation of that identity.  
c. High level: means a high level of security and trust in the Electronic Identification 
System that provides a high degree of trust and acceptability of the alleged 
identity of a person, and refers to technical and administrative standards and 
procedures aimed at eliminating any risks and preventing misuse or 
manipulation of that identity.  
2. A Licensee shall observe the following:  
a. Indicating to the Relying Party the levels of security and trust of the Digital 
Identity issued under the Electronic Identification System.  
b. Ensuring compliance with the technical specifications, standards and procedures  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   35 
 for the relevant level of security in the Electronic Identification System and Digital 
Identity as approved by TDRA.  
3. The Digital Identity used in Qualified Trust Services shall meet a high level of security 
and trust.  
4. TDRA shall, after coordination with the Competent Authorities, set the technical 
conditions and standards that must be met in terms of security and trust levels, provided 
that the following are observed:  
a. Setting criteria for differentiating between the levels of security and trust according to the degree of trust and acceptability.  
b. Authentication Procedures for the person requesting the issuance of the Digital 
Identity.  
c. The technical and security specifications of the Digital Identity, the procedures 
for its issuance, and its issuing entity.  
d. Authentication Procedures to confirm th e identity of any person to the Relying 
Party.  
e. Types of transactions and services provided by public or private entities.  
 
Article (34) Issuance of Authentication Certificates  
A Qualified Trust Service Provider shall, when issuing a Qualified Authentication Certificate, 
verify the identity and capacity of the person to whom the certificate will be issued, by any 
of the following means:  
1. Ensuring the presence of the person or the legal representative of the legal person.  
2. Using a Digital Identity that meets the conditions stipulated in this Decree Law 
regarding high levels of security.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   36 
 3. A Qualified Electronic Signature Authentication Certificate or a Qualified Electronic 
Seal Authentication Certificate issued by another  Qualified Trust Service Provider.  
4. Any procedure applicable in the State that is equivalent to the person's presence, in 
accordance with the conditions and procedures specified by the Executive Regulations of 
this Decree Law.  
 
Article (35) Obligations  of Licensees  
The Licensees shall have the following obligations:  
1. Notifying TDRA, the Competent Authorities and the concerned person of any violation 
or breach of the security and integrity of the data, immediately upon becoming aware of 
such violatio n or within the period specified by the decisions issued by TDRA.  
2. Indicating to the Relying Party the levels of security and trust of the Digital Identity 
issued under the Electronic Identification System.  
3. Ensuring compliance with the technical and security specifications, standards and procedures for the level of security required in the Electronic Identification System as 
approved by TDRA.  
4. Submitting a biennial report issued by the compliance assessme nt body to TDRA 
regarding compliance with the terms of the License issued thereto and the decisions 
issued thereby.  
5. Protecting personal data and implementing controls and procedures in accordance with 
the requirements of the competent authorities and the legislation in force.  
6. Taking all necessary measures to manage any risks that may arise to ensure the security and safety of electronic Trust Services and Qualified Trust Services in a way that 
prevents the occurrence of any security incidents or b reaches or minimizes their effects if  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   37 
 they occur.  
7. Preparing a service termination plan in accordance with the requirements specified by 
the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
8. Any other obligations specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law or other 
legislation in force in the State.  
    
Article (36) Obligations of Qualified Trust Service Providers  
Qualified Trus t Service Providers shall have the following obligations:  
1. Complying with the terms of Licenses issued thereto.  
2. Ensuring the accuracy of the material data in electronic Authentication Certificates 
throughout their validity period.  
3. Providing an appropriate means for the Signatories that enables them to report any 
facts that raise doubts about any of the services provided thereby in accordance with 
the Licenses issued thereto.  
4. Providing Authentication Certificate cancellation service.  
5. Notifying TDRA of any amendment to the data contained in the license application 
or of their desire to suspend submission thereof in accordance with the conditions 
and procedures specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
6. Using technic ally reliable systems and products that ensure technical security and 
are protected against any changes, modifications or hacks, as determined by TDRA and as approved by the Competent Authorities in this regard.  
7. Keeping Electronic Documents, Electronic Signatures and Seals, and evidence related to identification for the period specified by TDRA.  
8. Processing personal data in accordance with the legislation in force and the  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   38 
 provisions of this Decree Law.  
9. Creating and maintaining an updated datab ase of Authentication Certificates, in case 
the Authentication Certificate service is provided by the Qualified Trust Service 
Provider.  
10. Developing an updated plan to terminate the provision of the electronic Trust Service to ensure the continuity of the service.  
11. Refraining from providing the services in case of doubt about the accuracy of the 
data or the validity of the document sub mitted to verify the information provided for 
identification or establishment of the right to representation, or if there is a security impediment or risk.  
12. Relying on official data sources of persons in the State to provide any of the 
Qualified Trus t Services specified in the Licenses issued thereto.  
13. Any other obligations specified by the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law or other legislation in force in the State.  
  
Article (37) International Trust Services  
Qualified Trust Services pro vided by Qualified Trust Service Providers outside the State shall 
be recognized if they are similar to the level of services provided by Qualified Trust Service Providers in accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law and the decisions issued by 
TDR A. 
  
Article (38) Civil Liability  
Trust Service Providers shall bear civil liability for any damages incurred by any person as a 
result of breach of the obligations stipulated in this De cree Law, the Executive Regulations  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   39 
 thereof and decisions issued by TDRA.  
  
Chapter Four Penalties  
 
Article (39) 
Shall be punished by imprisonment and/or a fine of not less than one hundred thousand 
(100,000) Dirhams and not more than three hundred thousand (300,000) Dirhams 
whoever forges or participates in the forgery of an Electronic Document, Electronic 
Signature, Electronic Seal, Authentication Certificate, Trust Services and other Qualified 
Trust Services.  
Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and a fine of not less than one hundred and 
fifty thousand (150,000) Dirhams and not more than seven hundred and fifty thousand 
(750,000) Dirhams whoever forges or participates in the forgery of an Electronic Document, 
Electronic Signature, Electronic Seal, Authentication Certificate, Trust Services and other 
Qualified Trust Services of the federal or local government or federal or local public authorities or institutions.  
Whoever knowingly uses the forged Electronic Document shall be punished with the same  
penalty prescribed for the crime of forgery, as the case may be.  
  
Article (40) 
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of not more than one year and/or a fine of not less than one hundred thousand (100,000) Dirhams and not more than one million (1,000,000) Dirhams whoever:  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   40 
 1. Unlawfully exploits any Trust Services or Qualified Trust Services.  
2. Uses fraudulent methods or takes a false name or an incorrect capacity to obtain any 
Qualified Trust Services.  
If any of the foregoing acts are carried out with the intention of committing a crime, this shall 
be considered an aggravating circumstance.  
  
Article (41) 
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of not more than one year and/or a fine of 
not less than fifty thousand (50,000) Dirhams and not more than five hundred thousand (500,000) Dirhams whoever creates, publishes or provides another person with an 
Authentication Certificate, while being aware of any of the following:  
1. The certificate is not issued by the Licensee whose name appears thereon.  
2. The certificate is rejected by the Signatory whose name appears thereon.  
3. The certificate i s cancelled, unless the purpose of publication is to confirm any 
Electronic Signature or Electronic Seal used prior to such cancellation.  
4. The certificate contains incorrect data.  
  
Article (42) 
1. Shall be punished by temporary imprisonment and/or a fine of not less than five 
hundred thousand (500,000) Dirhams any person who, by any authority granted thereto 
hereunder, has access to confidential information of a sensitive nature in electronic 
record s, documents or correspondence, and intentionally discloses any of such 
information in violation of the provisions of this Decree Law.   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   41 
 2. The penalty shall be imprisonment and/or a fine of not less than two hundred and fifty 
thousand (250,000) Dirhams an d not more than five hundred thousand (500,000) 
Dirhams, if the confidential information is not of a sensitive nature.The penalty shall be 
imprisonment and/or a fine of not more than five hundred thousand (500,000) 
Dirhams, if the negligence of the violato r causes the disclosure of any sensitive or 
non -sensitive confidential information. The  cases where information is disclosed for the 
purposes of implementing the provisions of this Decree Law or any judicial procedure 
shall be excluded from the provisions of Clause (1) of this Article.  
  
Article (43) 
Shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of not more than six months and/or a fine 
of not less than twenty thousand (20,000) Dirhams and not more than one hundred 
thousand (100,000) Dirhams whoever intent ionally submits incorrect data to the Licensee 
in order to issue or cancel an Authentication Certificate.  
  
Article (44) 
Shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty thousand (50,000) Dirhams and not more than two hundred and fifty thousand (250,000) Dirhams whoever:  
1. Is licensed to provide Trust Services or Qualified Trust Services and has violated the provisions stipulated in this Decree Law, the Executive Regulations thereof and the 
decisions issued in implementation thereof w ith respect to these services.  
2. Refuses to have its systems and operations from Trust Service Providers or Qualified 
Trust Service Providers audited by compliance assessment bodies in accordance with  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   42 
 the provisions of this Decree Law, the Executive Reg ulations thereof and the 
decisions issued in implementation thereof.  
3. Publishes an announcement or provides a description regarding the Trust Services, 
Qualified Trust Services, or Qualified Trust Mark, with the intention of promoting or 
misleading, in  contradiction with the decisions issued by TDRA.  
  
Article (45) 
Shall be punished by imprisonment and/or a fine of not less than five hundred thousand 
(500,000) Dirhams and not more than one million (1,000,000) Dirhams whoever:  
1. Proceeds with any of the Trust Services or Qualified Trust Services without being 
licensed or exempted from obtaining a license in accordance with the provisions of 
this Decree Law, whether for the benefit of himself or others, or for the facilitation for 
others.  
2. Deliberately alters, destroys or conceals any document or information requested by TDRA in accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law.  
 
 
Article (46) 
Without prejudice to the rights of bona fide third parties, the court shall order the 
confiscation of tools and devices used in committing any of the crimes provided for in this 
Decree Law.  
  
Article  (47) 
Imposition of the penalties stipulated in this Decr ee Law shall not prejudice any more severe  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   43 
 penalty stipulated in any other law.  
  
Article (48) Violations and Administrative Penalties  
The Cabinet shall issue a decision specifying the acts that constitute a violation of the 
provisions of this Decree Law, the Executive Regulations thereof and the decisions issued in 
implementation thereof, as well as the administrative penalties to be imposed.  
  
Article (49) Law Enforcement Capacity  
The TDRA's employees who are designated by a resolution of the Minister of Justice, in 
agreement with the Chairman, shall act as law enforcement officers to identify the violations of the provisions of this Decree Law, the Executive Regulations thereof and the decisions 
issued in implementation thereof, within their respective co mpetencies.  
  
Chapter Five Final Provisions 
  
Article (50) Transitional Provisions  
Those who are subject to the provisions hereof shall regularize their status in accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law and the Executive Regulations thereof within a period not exceeding one year from the date of enforcement. Such period may be extended 
for another period or periods by a decisi on issued by the Cabinet based on a proposal of the 
Chairman.  
  
Article (51) Fees   
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   44 
 The Cabinet shall issue a decision determining the fees required for the implementation of 
the provisions of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (52) Executive Regulations  
The Cabinet  shall, based on a proposal of the Chairman and after coordination with the 
Competent Authorities, issue the Executive Regulations of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (53) Repeals  
1. Federal Law No. (1) of 2006 on Electronic Commerce and Transactions shall be repealed.  
2. Any provision contrary to or in conflict with the provisions of this Decree Law shall be 
repealed.  
3. The decisions and regulations applicable prior to the enforcement of the provisions of this Decree Law shall remain applicable, without prejudice to the provisions of this 
Decree Law, until superseded by other decisions and regulations to be issued in 
accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law.  
  
Article (54) Publication and Entry into force of the Decree Law  
This Decree Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force as of 2 
January 2022.  
  
 
 
 
 
  
Federal Decree Law of 2021  on Electronic Transactions and Trust Services   45 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
Issued by us, at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi:  
On: 13 Safar 1443 AH  
Corresponding to: 20 September 2021 AD  