Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  1 
 Federal Law No . (13) of 2016   
Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  
 
We Khalifah  Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,        President  of the United Arab Emirates , 
 
Having reviewed : 
− Federal Law No . (1) of 1972 on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  and  
− Federal Law No . (10) 1973 Establishing the Supreme Federal Court, as amended; 
and  
− Federal Law No . (9) 1976 on Delinquent and Homeless Juveniles;  and  
− Federal Law No . (6) 1978 Establishing Federal Courts and Transferring the 
jurisdictions of the Local Judicial Authorities in Some Emirates thereto, as 
amended; and  
− Federal Law No . (8) 1978 Ex empting the Government from Court  Fees and Fees of 
Motions, Certificates, Documents and P hotocopies of Judgments; and  
− Federal Law No . (17) 1978 Regulating Cases and Procedures for Objection for 
Cassation before the Supreme Federal Court, as amended;  and  
− Federal Law No . (8) 1980 Regulating Labor  Relations, as amended;  and  
− Federal Law No . (3) 1983 on the Federal Judicial Authority, as amended; and  
− Federal Law No . (5) 1985 Promulgating  the Civil Transactions Law, as amended; 
and  
− Federal Law No . (3) 1987 Promulgating the Penal Code, as amended;  and  
− Federal Law No . (11) 1992 Promulgating the Civil Procedures Code, as amended;  
and  
− Federal Law No . (35) 1992 Promulgating the Penal Procedures Code, as amended;  
and  
− Federal Law No . (26) 1999 Establishing the Conciliation and Reconciliation 
Committees in the Federal Courts , as amended;  and  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  2 
 − Federal Law No . (28) 2005 regarding Personal Status;  and  
− Federal Law No . (32) 2005 regarding the Court  Fees Payable before  the Federal 
Courts, as amended; and  
− Federal Law No . (29) 2006 regarding the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as 
amended;  and  
− Federal Decree- Law No . (8) of 2011 regarding the Rules for the Preparation of the 
General Budget and Final Account;  and  
− Based on the proposal of the Minister of Justice , the appr oval there of by the 
Cabinet and the Federal National Council,  and  the consent by the Federal Supreme 
Council,  
Hereby promulgate the following Law : 
 
Chapter One  
Scope of Application  
Article (1)  
This Law shall apply to all actions, appeals and motions  filed before the federal courts , 
which are registered or filed following  the effective date  here of. 
 
Chapter Two  
Rules for Calculation of Action Value and Fees  
Article (2)  
Fee Calculation  
1. The fee shall be calculated according to the Schedule of Court Fees  before Federal 
Courts attached hereto.  
2. Cabinet may amend the Schedule of Court Fees before Federal Courts attached 
hereto by way of addition, removal, amendment or complete replacement of the 
schedule, at a rate not exceeding (50%) of the original fee con tained in the 
schedule attached to this law.  
3. A separate fee shall be imposed on interlocutory applications and motions of the Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  3 
 offensive intervenor.  
4. No additional fee shall be imposed on motions of the intervenor by joinder. 
However, the intervenor by joind er shall be obligated to pay the action fee if not 
paid.  
5. No fee shall be imposed on the impleader which the Court orders sua sponte.  
 
Article (3)  
Fee Payment  
1. Subject to the provisions of the criminal action's fees set out herein, no action or 
appeal shall be registered, and no motion shall be heard without full payment of 
the due fee, unless a law or resolution exempting from such fee, or a resolution 
postponing the fee totally or partially, is issued.  
2. No new fees shall be collected if the Court of Appeal o r the Court of Cassation 
refers the case back to the trial court.  
 
Article (4)  
Elements included in Fee Calculation  
The calculation of fee shall include the profit s, interests, damages , returns , expenses  
and other supplements of a known value , which are  payable upon instituting  an 
action .     
 
Article (5)  
Calculation of the Action Value  
The value of an action shall be calculated depending to the demands of the litigants 
upon  instituting the same . The final calculation shall be made in accordance with the ir 
closing arguments in the currency of the State . The fraction  of a dirham shall be 
deemed a full dirham upon calculating the due fees and shall be collected on such 
basis.   
 
Article (6)  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  4 
 Fees of Cross Actions 
A separate fee shall be collected  for the cross actions  filed in the principal action in 
accordance with the same rules and the fee for the cross action for damages instituted 
by the defendant before the same court on the basis of the value thereof . 
 
Article (7)  
Higher Fee to be C harged  
The higher fee shall be imposed if the plaintiff amends the demands of unknown 
value;  when the action is pending , to that of a known value . 
 
Article (8)  
Security of Appeal  
The appellant shall, in case of appeal in the cases provided for in article (160) of  the 
Civil Procedure Code, deposit a security of (AED 2,000) two thousand dirhams with the court's treasury. Such amount shall be confiscated if the appeal is dismissed and 
shall be refunded to the appellant if a judgment is entered in favor thereof. If there are 
many appellants in a single petition, then a single security shall be deposited, even if 
the grounds for appeal are different.  
 
Article (9)  
Fees of Motion  for Preemption  
1. Fees for  actions  claiming the right of preemption  to a property shall be calculated 
on the basis of the rate  to be applied .  
2. If the rate  mentioned in the contract or calculated  by an expert is higher and the 
preemption applicant waives  his motion  before the judgment is entered or the 
preemption applicant objects to the rate , the fees  shall be  calculated  on the basis 
of the rate  to be applied .  
3. If the preemption applicant accepts the higher rate , the fees shall be calculated on 
the basis of such rate , regardless of the registration  and  the value of improvem ents 
required by the litigant or calculated  by an expert shall be added to the rate .  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  5 
 4. If the judgment is appealed and the property value is calculated  at a rate higher 
than the rate calculated  by the preemptor, the fees shall be imposed on the rate 
calculated  by the appellant .          
 
Article (10) 
Actions in a Foreign Currency  
If the claimed amount is in currency other than that of the State, the action value shall 
be calculated  at an equivalent amount in the  State's currency on the date of instituting 
the action.        
 
Article (11)  
Standardization of Fees  
Fees imposed on actions, appeals and motions stipulated in this Law, whether 
submitted electronically or manually, shall be collected in the same categories defined 
herein .  
 
Article (12)  
Fee of Service Abroad  
The applicant for serving a notice abroad shall bear all the  expenses prescribed in the 
State  where the notice is required to be served.   
 
Article (13)  
Calculation  of Fee in Some Actions  
Fees in the following actions shall be calculated  as follows:  
1. Ownership of a property  or movable, the fees shall be calculated on the basis of 
the value of each  one , which is stated  by the applicant  upon instituting the action,  
and any  additional fees shall be collected if  it is found  that the value exceeds the 
calculated  value . Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  6 
 2. Barter agreements , the fees shall be calculated on the basis of the higher  value of 
the barters . 
3. Validity, revocation or termination of  agreements,  the fees shall be calculated on 
the basis of the total value of the agreement  or the value in dispute if identified by 
the plaintiff . If the action  is related to the validity, revocation or termination of 
continuing agreements , the fees shall be calculated o n the basis of the total cash 
consideration for the whole agreemen t term , and if the said  agreement is executed 
partially, the action for its termination shall be calculated  on the basis of the 
remaining term . 
4. Lease- related disputes , the fees shall be calculated on the basis of the annual rent  
of the leased premises, subject to the following fee calculation mechanism : 
A. Motion for  the termination , evacuation or eviction of the leased premises , the 
fees shall be calculated depending on the rent of the term stated in the 
agreement , or the remaining term, as the case may be . 
B. Motion for  the agreement renewal, the fees shall be calculated depending  on 
the rent  specified in the previous lease term . 
C. The action shall be deemed of unknown value  in case of moving for  the 
evacuation or eviction, without  termination  of the agreement . 
5. Motion for proceeds, profits and interest s, the fees  shall be calculated on the basis 
of the claimed value until the day of instituting the action, and the fee  due 
following the entry of the judgment shall be paid from the dat e of instituting the 
action until its issuance  before being executed.  Moreover, it shall be paid at the 
stage of execution of the judgment until full execution . 
6. Mortgaging a property  or movable , any accessory right -in rem attached thereto or 
debts , the fees shall be calculated on the basis of the value of the property or 
movable subject of the mortgage or the right ; whichever is lower . 
7. Allotment of common property and sale thereof in case it is impossib le to divided 
the same , the fees shall be calculated on the basis of the share value . 
8. Dissolution of a company and appointment of a liquidator, the fees shall be 
calculated on the basis of the company's capital value upon  instituting the action . Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  7 
 9. Settlement of a claimed annuity , the fees shall be calculated on the basis of 
multiplying the same by  twenty (20) if it is perpetual,  or by ten (10) if it is for life . If 
the annuity is  temporary , the fees shall be calculated on the basis of the annual 
pension multiplied by the years numb er thereof, provided that they are not more 
than ten .   
10. Execution  of a foreign judgment, the fees shall be calculated on the basis of the 
value specified in the judgment . 
11. Redemption of attached items , the fees shall be calculated on the basis of the value 
of such items . 
 
Chapter Three  
Criminal Action 's Fees  
Article (14)  
Flat Fee 
1. With the exception of actions of juvenile s, a flat fee shall be imposed on 
criminal actions brought before courts in accordance with the Schedule 
attached  to this Law.  
2. Characterization of action as a felony or a misdemeanor shall be determined 
by the description  which the court hearing the action eventually concludes .  
 
Article (15)  
Maturity  Date of the Fee  
Fees set forth in article (14) hereof  shall be payable when the court convicts the 
accused and obligates, under  its judgment,  the convict to pay the due  fee. As for 
rehabilitation actions, their fees shall be payable in advance . 
  
 
 
Article (16)  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  8 
 No Plurality of Fees  
Fee shall not be pluralized depending on multiplicity of charges or the accused.  
 
Article (17)  
Fees in Case of Waiver  
Fees imposed on objections, appeals or objections for cassation shall be payable even 
if the accused waive s the same . 
 
Article (18)  
Collection of Fees , Expenses and Fines  
Fees, expenses and fines imposed on the accused  shall be collected from the amounts 
deposited with  the treasury as security for temporary release or as bails  or from any 
other amounts belonging to the convict  and deposited with the treasury , and the 
remaining am ount shall be collected by the fee collector at the public prosecut ion or 
the court . 
 
Chapter Four  
Fees of Civil Actions Emanating from Criminal Actions  
Article (19)  
The provisions hereof  shall apply to civil actions  instituted before the criminal courts, 
subject to  the following : 
1. The Plaintiff shall be obligated to pay the due  fee in accordance with the rules set 
forth in this Law.  
2. No new fees shall be collected  if the plaintiff is referred to the competent civil court, 
or a judgment dismissing the civil action  before the criminal courts  is entered.  
3. If the objection, appeal or objection for cassation of the accused is  limited to the 
judgment entered on civil action, the fees  shall be collected  in accordance with the 
provisions of the c ivil fees set forth  in th is Law.  
Chapter Five  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  9 
 Multiple Motions  
Article (20)  
Fee of Multiple Motions  
1. If an action contains motions of a known value  arising out of single legal ground, 
the fee shall be calculated  according to the total value thereof. If they arise out of 
various legal grounds, the fee shall be calculated on a case -by-case basis.  
2. If an action contains motions of known value  and other s of unknown value , the 
fee shall be calculated on a case -by-case basis.  
3. If an action contains motions all of which are of unknown value , arising out of 
various legal grounds , the fee shall be calculated on a case -by-case basis and shall 
be collected for total motions.  
4. If an action contains a principal motion and an alte rnative or ancillary motion, the 
higher fee shall be imposed. Additional motions shall be attached to the principal 
motion and the fee shall be calculated on the basis of total motions.  
 
Article (21)  
The Highest Fee in the Transaction  
If a transaction  contains a number of motions for each of which a certain fee is payable, 
the highest fee shall be calculated and it is  the only to be payable.  
 
Chapter Six 
Fee Collection Rules  
Article (22)  
Collection of Fees  
1. Fees shall be binding on the party obligated by the judgment to pay the action 
expenses and shall be settled on this basis. The appeal shall not prevent the 
collection of such fees . 
2. A judgment creditor shall receive a writ of execution  without being contingent  on 
collect ing the remaining fees payable from others.  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  10 
 3. The action management office shall annotate the copy of the judgment, indicating 
the payable fees to be under consideration of the  execution judge if he proceeds 
with  execution of the judgment . Such annotation, after being signed by the chief 
justice or the judge, as the case may be, as an calculation  of the fees, and shall be 
served with  writ of execution . 
4. If the litigant fails to apply for obtaining a writ of execution within ten days as of 
the entry date of the judgment. The action management office shall calculate the 
payable  fees by  an order to be issued by the chief justice or the judge, as the case 
may be, and the party obligated to pay the fees shall be served to pay the same in 
the State Treasury . 
 
Article (23)  
Restoration of Security  
A party in whose favor a final judgment is entered may get back the security deposited 
with the court for the payment of fees.  
 
Article (24)  
Fee Difference  
If it is found that the executable judgment has adjudicated to pay an amount more 
than the amount for which the court fees are paid, the writ of execution  shall be 
delivered to the party in whose favor the judgment is entered and the fees, including 
the fee difference,  shall be binding on the party obligated under the judgment to pay 
the fees and expenses.  
 
Article (25)  
Objection to Fees  
Any interested party may object to the amount of fees . The objection shall be effective 
if declared before the process server upon serving the order of estimating the fees or 
by a report in the action management office within  eight days following  the service Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  11 
 date, and the action management office shall set,  in the same report , the day on which 
the objection will be heard.  
 
Article (26)  
Adjudication  in the Objection  and Appeal ing it  
The Objection shall be filed  with the court  whose chief justice issues the calculation 
order or to the judge, as the case may be. The judgment shall be entered after hearing 
the statements of  the action management office and the objector  if he attends, and the 
judgment delivered on the objection to court fees shall be final if the value of adjudged 
fees in the objection is not more than ( AED  1,000) one thousand dirhams . Such 
judgment may be appeal ed within fifteen days as of  the service date ; otherwise, the 
right to the objection for cassation shall be extinguished and the judgment delivered 
by the Court of Appeal shall be final.  
 
Article (27)  
Cases of Fees Refund  
1. The full fees  shall be refunded  in the following cases : 
A. If a motion  for interpreting or correcting a judgment or omission of a motion is 
granted;  
B. If a motion for disqualification of a judge or a prosecuting attorney  is granted 
or if a judgment is entered in favor of the plaintiff;  
C. If a motion for disqualification of an expert is granted;  
D. If a rule is entered to cancel the auction for a reason not attributable to the party 
who paid the fee . 
E. In case of stay of execution  at the request of interested parties before 
proceeding with its proce dures ; 
2. Half of the fee amount shall be refunded in the following cases : 
A. If the dispute is settled by conciliation  before setting a date for adjudication on 
a plea or interlocutory or final judgment . Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  12 
 B. If the plaintiff or petitioner  waives the action before the close of pleadings or 
setting a date for adjudication on the action or objection for cassation . 
3. Motions for refunding fees shall not be heard after the lapse  of (60) sixty days from 
the date  of the last procedure . 
4. No new fee s shall be collected  if the appeal or objection for cassation  adjudicated  
to remand the case to the court which entered the challenged judgment . 
  
Chapter Seven  
Postponement of Fees and Exemption  
Article (28)  
Postponement by Chief Justice  
1. The Chief Justice of the competent court or any  judge  authorized thereby , at his 
discretion , may  postpone the payment of fee or part thereof  upon motion by  the 
interested parties , in accordance with the controls  and conditions to be set by the 
Minister of Justice . 
2. The interested parties shall submit a motion to the Chief Justice, indicating its 
grounds and containing the supporting documentation and evidence.  The Chief 
Justice may conduct the necessary investigations by himself or by his authorized 
representative and hear the movant  if necessary . 
3. The  motion shall be granted or denied  within fifteen days from the date  of 
submission . 
 
Article (29)  
Exemption by Minister of Justice  
The Minister of Justice may, in accordance with the rules laid down  thereby , exempt 
from fees or part there of if the insolvency of the obligated party is proved . 
 
Article (30)  
Exemption by Operation of Law  
The following shall be e xempt from the civil court  fees by operation of law : Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  13 
 1. Federal government and local agencies , associations , public utility institutions, and  
all those exempt from fees under  a federal  law, at all levels  of the action  and 
execution . 
2. Motion for establishing family and charitable endowments, and motion for 
guardianship of children of unknown parentage  and for establishing grants and 
charity certified by the Chief Justice . 
3. Actions , appeals , motions and procedures relating thereto, filed by workers , 
supporting service workers  and the like, or their heirs, petitioning their 
entitlements arising from labor relations, at all levels of the action and execution . 
4. Actions  instituted  by persons with disabilities pursuant to the provisions of the 
Federal Law regarding the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, at all levels of the 
action and execution . 
5. Orders , actions, appeals, motions and procedures relating to alimony   and motions 
for the conciliatory payment, dowry , house maid wage and others if they are filed  
by the movant for  alimony, at all levels of the action and execution . 
6. Motions for death and inheritance declaration . 
7. Motions and transactions relating to the following matters : 
A. Declaration  for the purpose of requesting social or humanitarian  aid or 
dependency . 
B. Declarations  of pensions . 
C. Embracing Islam . 
The exemption shall cover the fees of copies and cert ificates . 
8. Motion  for the execution of judgments  and renewal after nonsuit in personal 
status actions . 
 
Article (31)  
Exemption by Court Order  
1. The competent judge or the Chief Justice may exempt  the testimony  applicant 
on personal status actions  from the testimony fee if their poverty is proved . Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  14 
 2. The Chief Justice may exempt the plaintiff from the fee of renewal after nonsuit 
if the Plaintiff submits an excuse accepted by  the chief justice on the following 
day. 
 
Article (32)  
Expiration of Postponement  or Exemption Decision  
Postponement or exemption decisions set forth in Articles (28) and (29) and Clause  
(1) of article (31) shall expire if it is proved that the applicant is able to  pay the fees 
during the hearing of the action and  before th e full execution of the judgment, 
provided that, the fees shall be collected,  in all cases , from  the first payments received 
for execution  in favor  of the party for which the fees are postponed or who is exempt 
from the fee . 
 
Article (33)  
Exemption from the Security  
Whoever is exempt ed from  the court fees shall be exempt from the security.  
 
Chapter Eight  
Cases Where No Fee Imposed  
Article (34)  
No deposit fee shall be imposed on the following : 
1. Amounts  deposited by the bankruptcy trustees  on the account of bankruptcy or 
restructuring . 
2. Amounts deposited by bidders as a part of the price of the property . 
3. Amounts collected by the execution officer for the benefit of beneficiaries . 
4. Amounts deposited by federal government and local agencies, public authorities or public institutions affiliated thereto for the interested parties . 
    
 Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  15 
 Chapter Nine  
Final Provisions  
Article (35)  
Priority in Fees Collection  
The State Treasury shall have the priority for collect ing the fees imposed on all 
properties of civil individuals or those bound to pay the same . Such fees shall be 
collected by the  execution  department of the competent court . 
 
Article (36)  
Exemption from Criminal Action  Fees and  Collection Priority  
Matters relating to the exempt ion f rom fees and  determination of the privilege  
concerning fees of  criminal actions shall be subject to the p rovisions governing such 
matters set out in this Law.  
 
Article (37)  
Devolution of Fees  
All fees prescribed in accordance with the provisions hereof  shall devolve to the State 
Treasury and it shall be delivered to the Ministry of Finance . 
 
Article (38)  
Fees Determined by the Cabinet  
The Cabinet shall issue a resolution determin ing the electronic service  fees and fees of 
serving notices provided  by private companies and institutions . 
 
Article (39)  
Electronic Payment  
Fees prescribed in accordance with the provisions hereof  may be electronic ally paid, 
in accordance with the rules  to be  issued by the Minister of Finance . 
 Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  16 
 Article (40)  
Repeal and Transitional Provision  
1. Federal Law No . (32) of 2005 and Federal Law No . (8) of 1978 referred to above  
as well as any other provision inconsistent or discrepant with the provisions hereof 
are hereby repealed.  
2. The r egulations and resolutions  applicable on the issuance date hereof  shall 
remain in force, to the extent the same does not contradict with the provisions 
hereof , until the regulations and resolutions in implementation hereof are issued . 
 
Article (41)  
Publi shing and Entry into Force  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall come into full force and 
effect one  month following  the publishing thereof . 
 
 
 
Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 Issued by u s, in the Presidential Palace , Abu Dhabi : 
On: 16 Sha aban 1437 A .H. 
Corresponding to : 23 May 2016 AD  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  17 
 Annex to Federal Law No. (13) of 2016 on Court Fees before Federal Courts  
Court Fees Schedule  
S.N  Description  Chargeable Fee  
Civil Actions  
1 Claims filed with Urgent Matters Courts and 
their appeals  AED 500  
2 Criminal actions of unknown value  AED 1,000  
3 Plenary actions of unknown value  AED 3,000  
4 Actions for Receivership  3% of the value of 
property to undergo 
receivership, at a 
maximum of AED 30,000  
5 Claims in civil or commercial district actions 
of known value  4% of the action's value at 
a minimum of AED 100  
6 Claims in civil or commercial plenary actions 
of known value  4% for the first AED 1,000 
and 5% for the excess 
amount, at a maximum of 
AED 30,000  
7 Initiated administrative action and 
challenging the decisions issued by the 
administration  AED 2,000  
8 Appealing or objecting for cassation the 
administrative judgments and decisions  AED 1,000  
9 Appealing the execution judge's decisions on 
administrative actions  AED 500  
10 Motion for an Order on Petition on personal status actions or challenging it   AED 50  
11 Motion for travel ban on personal status 
actions or challenging it     AED 100  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  18 
 12 Muslim and non -Muslim personal status 
action, except for motions for alimony, 
dowry, conciliatory payment to divorced 
wife, child custody, divorce claim, rescission 
of marriage contract, housemaid or housing 
fees  AED 50 for each motion 
with the exceptions  
shown in this item  
13 Appealing the interlocutory decisions and 
judgments on personal status actions  AED 100  
14 Appealing the final judgments on personal 
status actions  AED 100  
15 Objection for cassation against judgments 
entered on personal status ac tions  AED 100  
16 Action for estate division or opening an estate file  AED 500  
17 Motion for appointment, renewal, removal or 
replacement of will executors,  AED 200  
18 Application for certification or notarization 
and registration of entry and authentication 
of personal status contracts (except for 
embracement of Islam or social aid 
certification), except for matters   AED 50  
19 Applying for affixing seals and moving to  affix 
same on the estate property and counting it  AED 500  
20 Application for allowing a minor to engage in 
trade  AED 200  
21 Action or order to deliver a passport  AED 100  
22 Objections to execution on personal status 
matters  AED 50 per objection  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  19 
 23 Financial claims related to personal status 
actions between the couple and challenging 
the same  1% of the value of the 
claimed object or amount 
at a maximum of AED 
30,000.  
24 Action for announcement of civil insolvency  AED 500  
25 Action for announcement of bankruptcy or 
(preventive) composition; this fee includes 
court procedures up to the end of bankruptcy 
or (preventive) composition procedures, and 
does not include costs of publishing in 
newspapers and posting the bankruptcy 
judg ment.  AED 500  
26 Motion for affixing stamps and moving to 
affix the same on the funds of companies and 
organizations and making an inventory of 
them.  AED 500  
27 Motion for appointing or replacing a trustee, 
custodian, temporary administrator, estate 
liquidator  AED 200  
28 Action for removing common ownership of a 
property  2% of the value of entire 
property at a maximum of 
AED 30,000.  
29 Action instituted against the judges, 
prosecuting attorneys or for disqualifying 
them.  AED 5,000  
30 Disqualification of experts or arbitrators  AED 1,000  
31 Action for signature validity  AED 300  
32 Action for easement  AED 500  
33 Motion for appointment or removal of 
arbitrator (other than personal status actions)  AED 500  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  20 
 34 Motion for leave to sell pledged property  2% of the value of 
property to be sold, so 
that the fee does not 
exceed 30,000.  
35 Motion for a judgment to cancel or strike off 
the mortgage  AED 300  
36 Motion for acceleration of action after agreed suspension  AED 300  
37 Motion to renew action from nonsuit (except for personal status actions).  AED 300  
38 Action for affirmation or invalidation of 
arbitral awards  AED 3,000  
39 Authentication and registration of civil and 
commercial papers and agreements and 
related documen tation  AED 200  
40 Challenging the resolutions of the committee on enrollment of experts or lawyers and the 
like AED 1,000  
41 Notices and notifications (other than the 
service of statement of claim or judgment, 
and notices relevant to the progress of claim 
brought before the court)  AED 300  
42 Motion for exhibiting the money or 
movables…etc  AED 200  
43 Delivery of funds, securit ies, jewels…etc.  AED 300  
44 Delivery of trademarks, commercial data, or invention -related specifications  AED 1,000  
45 Delivery of home or store keys…etc.  AED 100  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  21 
 46 Any photocopy of any of the action's papers 
subject to leave of the judge or court 
president  AED 1  
47 Any certified copy of any of the action's 
papers subject to leave of the judge or court 
president  AED 5  
48 Any certificate issued on civil, commercial 
and Sharia actions subject to leave of the 
Court  AED 50  
49 Objecting the sale of commercial store  AED 1,000  
50 Motion for imposing provisional attachment of property, aircraft, ships and the like.  AED 5,000  
51 Motion for replacement of a receiver  AED 1,000  
52 Motion for replacement of attached 
property's administrator  AED 100  
53 Motion for a "No Attachment Certificate"  AED 10  
54 Motion for resale at the expense of the 
Auction's first winner  1% of the value of price of auction at a maximum of 
AED 10,000  
55 Motion for intervention by parties, while the 
court -ordered impleader has  no fee  AED 55  
56 Action for forced delivery of instruments  AED 500  
57 Proportionate fee chargeable to the auction's winner  3% of the price at a maximum of AED 10,000  
58 Action for contract validity and enforceability 
or valid contracting  5% of the contract value 
at a maximum of AED 
30,000 
59 Application for a certificate that there are no 
pending cases or prior judgments entered 
against the applicant   AED 10  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  22 
 60 Authenticating the certificates and judgments 
to be used abroad  AED 100  
61 Action for  accelerating a hearing date  AED 20  
62 Filing the dispute with the conciliation and 
settlement committees  Free  
63 Motion for Rent payment  3% of the action's value  
64 Action for dissolution of a company and/or 
appointment of a liquidator  4% of the company's 
capital, provided that the 
fee is not less than AED 
100 and does not exceed 
AED 30,000.  
65 Copy of a judgment for a party to the action for the first time  AED 10  
66 Copy of a judgment for a party to the action 
for a subsequent time  AED 100  
67 Copy of a judgment for a non -party subject to 
the leave of the court president and legal 
entity  AED 300  
68 Application for an order on petition except for travel ban and provisional attachment  AED 300  
69 Motion for provisional attachment  AED 500  
70 Appealing, objecting to or challenging the 
provisional attachment order  AED 300  
71 Appealing the order on petition and travel 
ban except for personal status matters  AED 300  
72 Application for travel ban (without prejudice 
to the bail decided by the compe tent court)  AED 2,000  
73 Action for attachment validity  AED 300  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  23 
 74 Motion for appointing an expert, if filed in the 
form of an initiated independent action or to 
substantiate a status  AED 500  
75 Objection for cassation on all final judgments 
except for the personal status cases  AED 2,000  
76 Moving for or appealing the payment order  4% of the value of motion 
or action at a maximum of 
AED 30,000, provided that the fee is not less 
than AED 100 in a ll cases  
77 Appealing the payment order  Half of the order amount`  
78 Appealing ancillary judgments and matters  Half of the appeal fee  
79 Fees of appealing judgments on civil and 
commercial actions, except for personal 
status matters  5% of the appeal's value 
at a maximum of AED 
10,000 
80 Motion for reconsideration (to be fully 
returned if the judgment is entered in favor of 
the moving party  AED 1,000  
81 Stay of execution of the appealed judgment  AED 500  
82 Motion for interpretation of judgment or 
disregard of motions (fee to be returned in a 
judgment is entered in favor of the moving 
party)  AED 300  
83 Motion for transfer of attachment on other 
money other than the attached money  AED 200  
84 Application for  execution of executive deeds 
except for deeds related to personal status 
claims  2% of the value of 
executive deed, provided 
that it is not less than AED 
500 and not exceeding 
AED 3,000  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  24 
 85 Application for execution of deeds of 
unknown value  AED 300  
86 Execution of a foreign judgment  AED 3,000  
87 Motion for stay of self -executing judgment  AED 300  
88 Objection to sale terms list if related to the 
execution procedure  AED 200  
89 Application for affixing the writ of execution 
on arbitral awards of unknown value  AED 500  
90 First -time objection to execution by the 
judgment debtor   AED 500  
91 Any subsequent objection to First -time 
execution objection by the judgment debtor   AED 1,000  
92 Any objection, appeal or challenge to 
execution filed by a non -party  AED 50  
93 Appeals or challenge filed against the 
decisions or judgments of execution judge  AED 500  
94 Application for stay of judgments upon 
objection for cassation, except for personal status cases  AED 1,000  
95 Objection to the execution judge's decis ion 
(involvement, distribution)  AED 300  
96 Security amount paid to the Supreme Federal 
Court  AED 2,000  
97 Any application (motion) of known value not mentioned on the schedule  2% of total value thereof 
at a maximum of AED 
30,000 
98 Any other application (motion) not 
mentioned on the schedule  AED 300  
99 Cases of violations, appealing and objecting 
to them  AED 25  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  25 
 100 Cases of misdemeanors, appealing and 
objecting to them  AED 50  
101 Cases of felonies, procedures reconsideration 
and appealing  AED 100  
102 Cassation cases and motions for 
reconsideration AED 200  
103 Rehabilitation cases  AED 200  
104 Motion submitted to the Public Prosecution 
for cassation, appeal or motion for 
reconsideration AED 20  
105 Application for redemption of bails or 
security  AED 20 
106 Application involving a plea for mercy  AED 20  
107  Application for releasing an Accused on bail  AED 20  
108 Application for objection to execution  AED 20  
109 Application for withdrawal of documents  AED 20  
110 Application for receipt of passport or 
replacement of bail  AED 200  
111 Application for receipt of a vehicle  AED 20  
112 Application for an international arrest 
warrant or cancellation of an international 
arrest warrant   AED 20  
113  Application to get a case summary  AED 20  
114 Application to temporarily cease searching 
for an Accused  AED 20  
115 Application to get previous convictions of an Accused  AED 20  
116 Application for a certificate on the conduct of an action or any procedure thereon  AED 10  Federal Law No. (13)  of 2016 Concerning Judicial Fees Before Federal Courts  26 
 117 Application for a formal copy of judgment by 
a party to the action  AED 10  
118 Application for a formal copy of judgment by a non -party to the action  AED 10  
119 Application for uncertified photocopy or 
electronic copy of the action's papers (per 
paper ) AED 1  
120 Application for a certified true copy of the 
action's papers (per paper)  AED 5  
121 Other applications by the Public Prosecution not mentioned in the above applications  AED 20  
 
 
 