 
Federal Law  of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 1 
  Federal Law No. (37) of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 
We Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,             President of the United Arab Emirates,  
- After perusal of the Constitution;  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 concerning the Competencies of Ministries and 
Powers of Minister, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (5) of 1975 concerning the Commercial Register;  
- Federal Law No. (11) of 1976 concerning fire arms, ammunition and explosives, 
as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (12) of 1976 concerning Police Force and Security, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (8) of 1980 regulating business relations in the United Arab 
Emirates, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (10) of 1980 concerning the Central Bank, Cash Regulations, and 
the regulation of the Banking Business, as amended;  
- Federal Law No. (8) of 1984 concerning Commercial Companies, as amended;  
- Civil Transactions Code of the United Arab Emirates issued under Federal Law No. 
(5) of 1985, as amended;  
- Penal Code issued under Federal Law No. (3) of 1987, as amended; and  
- Penal Procedures Code issued under Federal Law No. (35) of 1992, as amended;  
- And pursuant to the proposal by the Minister of Finance, as approved by the 
Cabinet and ratified the Federal Supreme Council,  
Hereby issue the following law:  
  
  
Federal Law  of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 2 
  Chapter One General Provisions  
Article (1)  
The following words and expressions shall the meanings as set out opposite each, unless the 
context requires otherwise.  
UAE  : The United Arab Emirates  
Ministry  : Ministry of Interior  
Minister  : Minister of Interior  
Police General 
Department  : : The Police General Department in every Emirate  
 
Competent 
Authority  : The department or section at the Ministry or Police General 
Department in charge of dealing with, supervising and following up 
the works of private security companies.  
Company  : Security company or establishment or any governmental authority 
providing a security service, whether independently or in conjunction 
with other services.  
 
Training 
Institute  : the security  training institute, school or centre which is approved and 
licensed by the Ministry or Police General Department.  
Security Staff  : a security manager, officer, consultant, trainer, supervisor, money 
transportation guard, body guard, guard of buildings, facilities, events, 
celebrations and activities, whether part time or full time, or any other 
person having connection with security s ervice covered by the 
provisions hereof.  
Training 
Course  : security training course approved by the Ministry  
   
Federal Law  of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 3 
  Article (2)  
The provisions of this law shall apply to the Company, whether providing those services as an 
independent activity or in conjunction with other commercial activities.  
  
Article (3)  
No Company shall be established or licensed to carry out any security services without 
obtaining the security approval from the competent authority and completing the procedures 
required therefore i n accordance with the regulations and conditions as set out in the 
executive regulation hereof.  
  
Article (4)  
The Company shall complete the establishment or licensing procedures within six months 
from the date of the security approval, failing which the app roval shall be null and void.  
  
Article (5)  
The Minister or his representative may cancel the security approval of the Company or 
suspend its activities at any time if it no more fulfils any of the conditions on the basis of which 
the approval was given, if it goes beyond its tasks as set out in the executive regulation hereof 
or if the approval was issued on the basis of inaccurate information. The Competent Authority 
shall be notified of such action in order to take actions as required to cancel the licence  issued 
to the Company.  
  
Article (6)  
The Company shall have a head office approved by the Competent Authority and relevant 
entities. Such head office should meet the conditions and be appropriately equipped to  
Federal Law  of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 4 
  perform the tasks as determined by the executive regulation hereof.  
  
Article (7)  
The Company shall provide the Competent Authority with all data and information as 
required by the executive regulation hereof  
  
Article (8)  
Charges for issuing the security approval, licences, annual renewals and any  other charges 
shall be determined under a resolution by the Cabinet pursuant to a proposal by the Minister.  
  
Chapter Two Activity of the Company  
Article (9)  
The activity of the Company shall be limited to the Emirate where it is licensed and it may not 
operate in another Emirate without obtaining a licence from such Emirate, except in the 
events of transporting money or precious items across the Emirates and providing security 
protection to individuals while moving between Emirates in accordance with the  
requirements and conditions as determined by the executive regulations hereof.  
  
Article (10)  
The activity of the Company shall be limited to the security service class as set out in the 
licence and it may not provide any other security service without obta ining the security 
approval for such service. The security service class shall be determined by the executive 
regulation hereof.  
  
Article (11)   
Federal Law  of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 5 
  The Company may not appoint security staff without obtaining the approval of the 
Competent Authority and fulfil al l requirements and conditions as set out in the executive 
regulation hereof.  
  
Article (12)  
The business of the Company shall be limited to preventive security protection, and shall not 
extend to performing the tasks of law enforcement officers.  
  
Article (13)  
The Company shall fully coordinate with the Competent Authority to ensure that its activities 
are not in conflict with any established security measures.  
  
Article (14)  
The Company shall provide means of transportation which allow it to perform its tasks. S uch 
means of transportation shall meet the requirements and conditions as determined by the 
executive regulation hereof.  
  
Article (15)  
The Company shall establish a communication centre at its head office and shall use wired 
and wireless communication devic es which are licensed by the Competent Authority.  
  
Article (16)  
1. The Company's employees authorized to provide security services in accordance with 
this Law and the Executive Regulations hereof may acquire or carry any or a part of 
weapon subject to obtaining the approval of the security bodies and the competent  
Federal Law  of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 6 
  authorities and relevant licenses for both the Company and its employees in conformity 
with the controls prescribed by the Executive regulations of this Law.  
2. The use of the licensed weapons sh all be governed by the rules and provisions set out in 
the Executive Regulations.  
3. The Executive Regulations hereof shall determine the type of weapons, equipment, 
materials and systems required for the Company's business as well as the conditions and 
contr ols for the use, maintenance and the methods of storing of same.  
  
Article (17)  
The Company shall procure the security staff to follow a training course to be conducted by 
the Training Institute in accordance with the requirements and conditions as determine d by 
the executive regulation hereof.  
  
Article (18)  
The Company shall provide the security staff with a uniform which is distinct from that of the 
police and armed forces in accordance with the specifications, requirements and conditions 
as determined by th e executive regulation hereof.  
  
Article (19)  
The Company shall maintain organized records of its business and employees as determined 
by the executive regulation hereof. The Competent Authority may inspect and check those 
records at any time  
  
 
Chapter Three Penalties   
Federal Law  of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 7 
  Article (20)  
Without prejudice to any more severe punishment provided for in any other law:  
 
1. Whoever provides security services in violation of the provisions of article (3) hereof 
shall be penalized with a fine of not less than (AED 500,000) five hundred thousand 
dirhams.  
2. Whoever commits an act in violation of the provisions of article (16) hereof shall be 
sentenced to imprisonment and a fine of not less than one million dirhams.  
3. Subject to the provisions of the foregoing, whoever vio lates the provisions of this Law or 
the Executive Regulations hereof shall be penalized with imprisonment and/or a fine of 
not less than (AED 20,000) twenty thousand dirhams and not exceeding (AED 200,000) 
two hundred thousand dirhams.  
4. The punishments prescribed in this Article shall be doubled in case of recidivism with the 
possibility of revoking the Company's license.  
 
Chapter Four Final Provisions  
Article (21)  
The Minister shall determine the violations and the fines required to be paid by the one 
committing such violations, which shall not exceed AED 5,000.  
  
Article (22)  
 Companies operating in the field of security and protection shall rectify their positions in 
accordance with the provisions of this Law and its executive regulation  within six months 
from the issue date of the executive regulations hereof.  
   
Federal Law  of 2006 Concerning Private Security Companies.  
 8 
  Article (23)  
The Minister shall issue the regulations and resolutions required to implement the provisions 
hereof.  
  
Article (24)  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force on the date of its 
publication.  
  
 
[Signed]  
Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
Issued by us in the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi  
On: 17 Ramadan 1427 A.H.  
Corresponding to 9 October 2006  
 
 