 
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  1 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985  
concerning the issuance of the civil transactions law of  
the United Arab Emirates  
 
We, Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan                       President of the United Arab Emirates , 
Having perused the provisions of the Temporary Constitution; and  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972, Concerning the Competences of Ministries and Capacities 
of Ministers, and its amending laws thereof; and  
− Based upon the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, the Cabinet and the Federal National Council’s approval, and the ratification of the Federal Supreme Council,  
Hereby promulgate the following Law:  
 
Article (1) 
The annexed law concerning civil transactions for the United Arab Emirates shall be 
enforced.  
 
Article (2) 
This Law shall be published in the official gazette and shall come into effect three months 
after its date of publication.  
 
Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan President United Arab Emirates  
 
Issued by us in the Presidency Palace in Abu Dhabi on:  
15 / 12 / 1985 AD    
Corresponding : 03 Rabi’ul Thani 1406 A.H.  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  2 
 Introductory Section: General Provisions  
Chapter One:  Provisions relating to the application and effect of the law in 
time and place  
Part  1: The Law and its application  
Article (1) 
The legislative provisions shall apply to all matters dealt with by those provisions in the 
letter and in the spirit.  There shall be no scope for innovative reasoning in the case of 
provisions of definitive import.  If the judge finds no provision in this Law, he must pass 
judgment according to the Islamic shar îʿa. Provided that he must have regard to the choice of 
the mos t appropriate solution from the schools of Imam Malik and Imam Ahmad bin 
Hanbal, and if none is found there, then from the schools of Imam al -Shafiʿi and Imam Abu 
Hanifa as dictated by expediency.  
If the judge does not fi nd the solution there, then he must render judgment in accordance 
with custom, but provided that the custom is not in conflict with public order or morals, and if a custom is particular to a given emirate, then the effect of it will apply to that emirate.  
 
Article (2) 
The rules and principles of Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh) shall be relied upon in the understanding, construction and interpretation of these provisions. 
  
Article (3) 
Public order shall be deemed to include mat ters relating to personal status such as marriage, 
inheritance, and lineage, and matters relating to sovereignty, freedom of trade, the 
circulation of wealth, rules of private ownership and the other rules and foundations upon which society is based, in su ch a manner as not to conflict with the definitive provisions and 
fundamental principles of the Islamic Shari'ah.  
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  3 
 Part  2: The application of the Law with regard to time  
Article (4) 
(1)  It shall not be permissible to repeal a legislative provision or to suspend the operation of 
it save by a subsequent legislative provision expressly so enacting or which includes a 
provision inconsistent with the earlier legislative provision or which rearranges the subject 
matter the rules for which are already laid down  in such legislation.  
(2) If a legislative provision repeals an earlier legislative provision and the later legislative provision is itself repealed, such repeal shall not result in the earlier provision coming into force again unless it is expressly so laid down.  
 
Article (5) 
(1)  Provisions relating to competence (legal capacity) shall apply to all persons to whom the 
conditions laid down in such provisions apply.  
(2)  If a person is competent under old provisions and he loses that competence under new 
provisions, such loss shall not affect his earlier dispositions.  
 
 
Article (6) 
(1)  The new provisions relating to limitation of time for claims shall apply as from the time 
they come into force to every period of limitation which has not expired.  
(2)  Provi ded that the old provisions shall apply to questions relating to the commencement 
of the running of time, and the suspension and interruption thereof, in relation to the period 
prior to the new provisions coming into force.  
 
Article (7) 
(1)  If the new provision lays down a limitation period shorter than that laid down in the old 
provision, the new period shall apply from the time the new provision comes into effect 
notwithstanding that the old period has already commenced.  
(2)  If, however, the remainder of the period provided for under the old provision is shorter 
than the period provided for under the new provision, the period of limitation shall expire  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  4 
 upon the expiry of that remainder.  
  
Article (8) 
The provisions relating to evidential proof current at  the time such proof was prepared, or 
should have been prepared, shall apply thereto.  
 
 
Article (9) 
Times shall be calculated according to the solar (Gregorian) calendar unless the law provides 
otherwise.  
 
Part  3: The application of the Law with regard to place  
Article (10)  
The law of the State of the United Arab Emirates shall be the authoritative source in 
determining relationships when the nature of such relationships requires to be determined 
in a suit in which there is a conflict of laws as to the law to be applied between the parties.  
  
Article (11)  
(1)  The law of the state of which a person has the nationality shall apply to the civil status 
and competence of such person but nevertheless in financial dealings transacted in the State of the United Ara b Emirates the results of which materialise therein, if one of the parties is an 
alien of defective capacity and the lack of capacity is attributable to a hidden cause which 
the other party could not easily discover, such cause shall have no effect on his capacity.  
(2)  With regard to the legal regulation of foreign juridical persons including companies, 
associations, establishments and otherwise, the law of the state in which such bodies have their actual main administrative centre shall apply thereto, and  if such a body carries on an 
activity in the State of the United Arab Emirates, the national (sc.UAE) law shall apply. 
 
Article (12)  
(1) The substantive requirements for mar riage shall be determined by the law of the state  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  5 
 where the marriage was performed.  
(2) With regard to the form, a marriage between aliens or between a national and an alien 
shall be deemed to be valid if it is contracted in accordance with the rules of th e country in 
which it took place, or if the rules laid down by the law of each of the spouses have been 
observed.  
 
Article (13)  
(1) The law of the state where the marriage was performed shall govern the personal and 
financial effects entailed by the marria ge. 
(2) The law of the state where the marriage was performed shall govern divorce by the 
husband, divorce officiated by the judge and separation.  
 
Article (14)  
In the circumstances provided for in the two foregoing Articles, if one of the spouses is a 
national at the time the marriage is contracted, the law of the United Arab Emirates alone 
shall apply, save in respect of the legal capacity to marry.  
  
Article (15)  
Obligations to support relatives shall be governed by the law of the person having such 
obligation.  
 
Article (16)  
Substantive matters relating to guardianship, trusteeship and maintenance and other systems laid down for the protection of persons havin g no competence or of defective 
competence or of absent persons shall be governed by the law of the person requiring to be 
protected.  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  6 
 Article (17)  
1. Without prejudice to P aragraphs (3) and (4) of this Article, inheritance shall be governed 
by the law of the state where the deceased resided at the time of death.  
2. The financial rights existing on its territory and belonging to an alien having no heirs shall 
devolve to the State.  
3. The substantive provisions of will and all dispositions made upon death hall be governed 
by the law of the state designated by the will or disposition or the law of the state whose 
nationality the person making the disposition holds at the time of death if the will or 
disposition does not designate a law.  
4. The form of the will and all dispositions made upon death shall be governed by the law of 
the state designated by the will or disposition, the law of the state whose nationality the 
person ma king the disposition holds at the time of issuance thereof or the law of the state in 
which the disposition was made.  
5. The laws of the United Arab Emirates shall govern the will issued by an alien regarding his property located at the State.  
 
Article (18) 
(1)  Possession, ownership and other rights over property shall be governed by the lex situs 
in the case of real property, and movable property shall be subject to the law of the place in 
which such property is at the time when the cause resulting in t he acquisition or loss of 
possession, ownership or other rights over the property arose.  
(2)  The law of the state in which property is located shall determine whether such property 
is real or movable.  
 
Article (19)  
(1)  The form and the substance of contr actual obligations shall be governed by the law of 
the state in which the contracting parties are both resident if they are resident in the same state, but if they are resident in different states the law of the state in which the contract was 
concluded sh all apply unless they agree, or it is apparent from the circumstances that the 
intention was, that another law should apply.  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  7 
 (2)  The lex situs of the place in which real property is situated shall apply to contract made 
over such property.  
 
Article (20)  
(1)  Non -contractual obligations shall be governed by the law of the state in which the event 
giving rise to the obligation took place.  
(2)  The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall not apply to obligations arising out of an 
unlawful act in connectio n with events taking place abroad which are lawful in the State of 
the United Arab Emirates notwithstanding that they are considered to be unlawful in the 
country in which they took place.  
  
 
Article (21)  
The rules relating to jurisdiction, and all procedu ral matters, shall be governed by the law of 
the state in which the action is brought or in which the procedures are carried out.  
 
Article (22)  
The provisions of the foregoing Articles shall not apply in cases where there is a contrary 
provision in a speci al law or in an international convention in force in the State.  
 
Article (23)  
The principles of private international law shall apply in the absence of a relevant provision 
in the foregoing Articles governing the conflict of laws.  
  
Article (24) 
The law o f the State of the United Arab Emirates shall apply in the case of persons of 
unknown nationality, or persons who are shown to have more than one nationality at the same time.  Provided that in the case of persons shown to have at the same time the 
nationality of the United Arab Emirates and of another State, United Arab Emirates law must be applied.  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  8 
 Article (25)  
If it appears from the provisions contained in the foregoing Articles that the law to be 
applied is the law of a particular state which has more than one legal system, the domestic 
law of that state shall determine which legal system is to be applied.  In the absence of a 
specific provision, the prevailing system of law, or the law of the place of residence, as the 
case may be, shall apply. 
  
Article (26)  
(1)  If it is established that a foreign law is to be applied, only the domestic provisions thereof 
shall be applied, to the exclusion of those provisions relating to private international law.  
(2)  Provided that the law of the United Arab Emirates  shall apply if international law relating 
to applicable law provides that United Arab Emirates law shall apply.  
 
Article (27)  
The provisions of a law designated in Articles (10), (11), (18), (19), (20), (21), (22), 
(23), (24), (25) and (26) of the present  Code shall not apply if such provisions 
contradict the provisions of the Islamic Sharia or the public order or morals in the United Arab Emirates.  
 
Article (28)  
The law of the United Arab Emirates shall be applied if it is impossible to prove the existen ce 
of an applicable law or to determine its effect.  
  
 
Chapter Two: Certain jurisprudential maxims and rules of interpretation  
Article (29)  
Ignorance of the law is no excuse.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  9 
 Article (30)  
Exceptions may not be used by analogy, nor may their interpretations be extended.  
 
 
Article (31)  
A mandatory provision (of law) shall take precedence over a contractual stipulation.  
 
 
Article (32)  
That without which an obligation cannot be performed is itself an obligation.  
  
Article (33)  
A rule shall depend on its cause for its existence and shall cease to be if the cause ceases to exist.  
 
Article (34)  
Fungibles shall not cease to exist.  
  
Article (35)  
Certainty shall not be removed by a doubt.  
Article (36)  
There is a presumption of continuance.  
 
Article (37)  
There is a presumption that an obligation has been discharged.  
 
  
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  10 
 Article (38)  
There is a presumption against the existence of supervening qualities (i.e.  things will be 
presumed to be normal and usual unless the contrary is proved).  
  
Article (39)  
A thing proved to have existed in the past shall be deemed still to exist in the absence of 
evidence to the contrary.  
 
Article (40)  
There is a presumption that an event (known to have occurred) has occurred in the immediate past.  
 
Article (41)  
No analogies may be drawn from what is shown to be contrary to analogy (i.e.  outside the 
normal course of events).  
 
Article (42)  
(1)  No harm shall be done, nor harm done in return.  
(2)  Harm shall be made good.  
(3)  Harm may not be made good by causing s imilar harm (in return).  
 
 
Article (43)  
Necessity excuses the doing of a prohibited act.  
 
Article (44)  
A person shall be bound by his admissions.  
The averting of evil is better than the doing of good.  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  11 
 Article (45)  
Compelling need shall not annul the rights of others.  
 
Article (46)  
(1)  Custom, whether general or particular, is binding.  
(2)  Regard shall be had to custom if it is of long duration and continuing, or is prevalent.  
(3)  Actual facts may be established by reference to custom.  
 
Article (47)  
Customary usage amounts to evidence (of rights and obligations) and shall be abided by.  
 
  
Article (48)  
What custom (or common knowledge) regards as impossible (absurd) shall be treated as 
what is in fact impossible (absurd).  What custom (or common knowledge) regards as 
impossible (absurd) shall be treated as what is in fact impossible (absurd).  
  
 
Article (49)  
Greater (evidential) weight shall be given to the prevailing and the commonplace than to the 
rare (and exceptional).  
  
Article (50)  
That which is established by custom is equivalent to a stipulated condition.  
 
Article (51)  
An obligation under custom has th e same force as an expressly stipulated condition.  
  
 
Article (52)  
Where prohibition conflicts with an obligation, the prohibition shall take precedence.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  12 
 Article (53)  
That whi ch is ancillary attaches (to the principal subject matter) and need not be separately 
specified.  
 
Article (54)  
If a matter ceases to exist, that which is incidental to it shall also cease to exist.  
 
  
Article (55)  
That which has lapsed (been waived) or cea sed to exist shall not arise again.  
 
Article (56)  
A subordinate matter (right or obligation) shall be annulled if the principal matter (right or 
obligation) is annulled.  
 
Article (57)  
If (and only if) the original thing is lost, an obligation may be perfor med by use of a 
substitute.  
 
Article (58)  
A disposition affecting the public must, to be valid, be in the public interest.  
 
  
Article (59)  
An answer refers back to the question.  
 
Article (60)  
No regard shall be had to mere possibilities.  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  13 
 Article (61)  
No regard shall be had to an (act performed in consequence of a) belief which is shown to 
be wrong.  
 
Article (62)  
If a matter is established by (proper lawful proof, (the effect is tantamount to the judge being) as an eye -witness.  
 
Article (63)  
A person sh all be bound by his admissions.  
 
Article (64)  
A subsidiary matter may be proved without the principal matter being proved.  
  
Article (65)  
A matter which is (merely) outwardly apparent suffices as a defence (to maintain the status quo), but not to establish a (positive claim of) right.  
  
Article (66)  
The yield (esp.  of animals or land) belongs to (him who undertakes) the burden (of making 
the payment for the upkeep of the thing producing the yield).  
 
Article (67)  
(He who has) the advantage (of e.g.  an arrangement must bear) the burden (e.g.  of 
contributing his share).  
  
Article (68)  
No person may validly make a disposition over the property  of another.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  14 
 Article (69)  
He who prematurely obtains a thing shall be penalised by being deprived of it.  
  
Article (70)  
No person may resile from what he has (conclusively) performed.  
 
 
Chapter  Three : Persons  
Part  1 : Natural Persons  
Article (71)  
(1)  The personality (status of person) of a human being shall commence at the moment of 
being born alive.  It shall terminate upon his death.  
(2)  The law shall lay down the rights of a fetus in utero.  
  
 
Article (72)  
(1)  The facts of birth and death shall be recorded (or: proved) by entries in registers kept for 
that purpose.  
(2)  If there is no such evidence or if it should appear that the entries in the register are 
incorrect, it shall be permissible to prove the same by  any legal means of proof.  
 
Article (73)  
Provisions relating to foundlings shall be laid down in a special law. 
  
Article (74)  
The provisions relating to lost and missing persons shall be laid down in a special law.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  15 
 Article (75)  
(1)  The nationality of the State of the United Arab Emirates shall be regulated by law.  
(2)  By the word "national", wherever it appears in the Civil Code, shall be meant any person 
having the nationality of the United Arab Emirates.  By the word "alien" shall be meant any 
person who does not have the nationality of the United Arab Emirates.  
  
Article (76)  
(1)  The family of a person shall consist of his spouse and relatives.  
(2)  All persons coming from a common stock shall be deemed to be relatives.  
  
Article (77)  
(1)  A direct relationship is the relationship of root and branch (direct lineage).  
(2)  An indirect relationship is the link between persons of a common stock without direct 
lineage, whether or not within the degree of consanguinity precluding marriage.  
  
Article (78)  
In calculating the degree of direct relationship each upwards stage of generation to the 
source shall be regarded as one degree away from that source.  In calculating the degree of 
indirect relationship degrees of ascent from the descendants to th e common origin shall be 
taken into account, and then downwards from him to the last generation, and each stage 
shall be counted as a degree with the exception of the common source.  
 
Article (79)  
One of the relations of the spouses shall be regarded as having the same degree of relationship to the other spouse.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  16 
 Article (80)  
(1)  Each person shall have a name and a surname, and his surname shall attach to the 
names of his children. 
(2)  A special law shall regulate the manner of acquisition and changing of names and 
surnames.  
Article (81)  
(1)  A residence (mawtin) is the place in which a person normally resides.  
(2)  A person may have more than one residence at the same time.  
(3)  If a person does not have a place in which he normally resides, he shall be deemed to be 
without a residence.  
  
Article (82)  
The place in which a person carries on a trade, profession or occupation shall be deemed to 
be a residence in connection with the administ ration of the business relating to such trade, 
profession or occupation.  
  
Article (83)  
(1)  The residence of a person of defective capacity or a person under a restriction, and 
missing or absent persons, shall be the residence of the person representing s uch persons at 
law.  
(2)  A person of defective capacity who is authorised to trade shall have a special residence 
in relation to the work and dealings which the law regards him as having capacity to transact.  
Article (84)  
(1)  It shal l be permissible to adopt an elective place of residence to carry out a specific legal 
operation.  
(2)  An elective place of residence may only be proved by writing.  
(3)  An elective place of residence to carry out a legal operation shall be the residence i n 
relation to all matters connected with that operation including compulsory enforcement  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  17 
 proceedings unless it is expressly stated that that residence is restricted to certain matters 
exclusively.  
  
Article (85)  
(1)  Every person who has reached the age of  majority in possession of his mental powers 
and who has not been placed under a restriction shall be of full capacity to exercise his rights laid down in this law and the laws deriving from it. 
(2)  A person shall be of the age of majority upon reaching t he age of twenty one lunar years.  
  
Article (86)  
(1)  No person who lacks discretion by reason of youth, imbecility or insanity shall be 
competent to exercise his civil rights.  
(2)  Persons under the age of seven years shall be deemed not to have reached t he age of 
discretion.  
 
Article (87)  
Any person who has reached the age of discretion but has not reached the age of majority and any person who has reached the age of majority but is an idiot or of unsound mind shall 
be of defective capacity under the law.  
  
Article (88)  
Persons of no capacity or of defective capacity as the case may be shall, with regard to 
guardianship, tutelage and custodianship, be subject to the relevant conditions in 
accordance with the rules laid down by law.  
  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  18 
 Article (89)  
No per son may divest himself of his personal liberty or of his capacity, or vary the 
concomitants thereof.  
  
Article (90)  
Any person who suffers an unlawful infringement of any of the rights appurtenant to him as 
a person shall have the right to require that suc h infringement cease, together with 
compensation for any damage suffered by him.  
  
Article (91)  
Any person whose use of his name or surname or both is disputed by another without justification or whose name or surname or both are wrongfully assumed by anot her shall 
have the right to require that such infringement do cease and to claim compensation for any 
harm suffered.  
  
Part  2: Juridical Persons  
Article (92)  
Juridical persons shall consist of the following: - 
(a)  the State, the (individual) Emirates, the Municipalities and other administrative units, 
under the conditions laid down for them by law;  
(b)  public departments, authorities and bodies and public institutions and establishments 
upon which a judicial person ality is conferred by law;  
(c)  Islamic bodies recognised by the State as having a juridical personality;  
(d)  waqfs; 
(e)  civil and trading companies, save as excluded by a special provision;  
(f)  private societies and establishments established in accordance with the law; and  
(g)  any grouping of persons or property having a juridical personality under the provisions 
of the law.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  19 
 Article (93)  
(1)  A juridical person shall enjoy all rights, save those pertaining (exclusively) to the capacity 
of being a na tural person, within the limits laid down by law.  
(2)  Such persons shall have:‑  
(a)  separate financial liability;  
(b)  legal capacity within the limits laid down by the document establishing it, or as laid 
down by law;  
(c)  the right to bring proceedings ; and  
(d)  a separate place of residence.  The place of residence of a juridical person shall be 
deemed to be the place in which it has its administrative centre, and so far as concerns 
juridical persons whose head office is abroad but which carry on an ac tivity in the State, 
their administrative centre, with regard to the law of the State, shall be deemed to be the 
place at which the local administration is situated. 
(3)  Such persons must have a (natural) person to express their intentions.  
  
Article (94)  
Juridical persons shall be subject to the special laws pertaining to them.  
 
Chapter  Four:  Things and property  
Article (95)  
Property ("mal") is anything  or right having a material value in dealing. 
  
Article (96)  
Property may be "mut aqawwim" or "non -mutaqawwim".  Mutaqawwim property is that 
which it is permissible for a Muslim lawfully to enjoy, and non -mutaqawwim property is 
that which it is not permissible for a Muslim lawfully to enjoy.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  20 
 Article (97)  
Any thing which can be possess ed whether physically or constructively, or which may be 
lawfully enjoyed, and which does not by its nature or by operation of law fall outside the 
scope of dealing (transactions), shall be a proper subject of property rights.  
  
Article (98)  
Things which a re by their nature outside the scope of dealing are those which no person 
may possess exclusively, and things which are outside the scope of dealing by operation of law are those which the law does not permit to be the subject of property rights.  
  
Article (99)  
(1)  Fungible things are those whose units or parts are of a replaceable nature, or nearly so , 
in such a way that by custom other things can take their place without any appreciable distinction, and which are calculated in dealing by number, measurement, capacity or weight.  
(2)  Non -fungibles are those things whose individual instances differ appr eciably as to 
description or value, or which are unique in circulation.  
  
Article (100)  
(1)  Consumable things are those the nature of which cannot be enjoyed save by consuming 
or spending them.  
(2)  Usable things (durables) are those which can only be enj oyed by repeated use, they 
retaining their specific identity.  
  
Article (101)  
Any thing of a permanently fixed nature and which cannot be removed without damaging or altering its surroundings shall be regarded as real property.  Everything else shall be 
regarded as movable property.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  21 
 Article (102)  
Real property by allocation (i.e.  intended to serve as part of the real property) is movable 
property placed by an owner in real property of his, with the intent of its being used or 
exploited, even though not ( permanently) fixed to the real property.  
  
Article (103)  
(1)  All real property or movables owned by the State or public juridical persons, allocated in 
fact or in law for the public benefit, shall be deemed to be public property.  
(2)  In no circumstances may such property be disposed of or distrained (attached) or pass 
into (private) ownership by effluxion of time.  
  
Chapter Five:  Rights  
Part 1: The scope and exercise of rights  
Article (104)  
The doing of what is permitted by law negates liability, and no pe rson who lawfully 
exercises his rights shall be liable for any harm arising thereout.  
 
Article (105)  
(1)  It is proper that a private harm be borne to avert a public harm.  
(2)  It is proper that a greater harm be removed by (inflicting) a lesser harm.  
 
Part  2: The abuse of rights  
Article (106)  
(1)  A person shall be held liable for an unlawful exercise of his rights.  
(2)  The exercise of a right shall be unlawful:  
(a)  if there is an intentional infringement (of another's rights); 
(b)  if the interests w hich such exercise of right is designed to bring about are contrary to the 
rules of the Islamic Shari'ah, the law, public order, or morals;   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  22 
 (c)  if the interests desired are disproportionate to the harm that will be suffered by others; or  
(d)  if it exceeds the bounds of usage and custom. 
 
Part  3: Types of rights  
Article (107)  
A right may be personal, property or moral (choses in action).  
  
Article (108)  
A personal right is a legal relationship between an obligee and an obligor whereby the 
obligee has a claim against his obligor for the transfer of a property right, or to perform or 
refrain from performing an act.  
  
Article (109)  
(1)  A property right is a  direct power over a particular thing, given by law to a particular 
person.  
(2)  A property right may be original or consequential.  
  
Article (110)  
(1)  Original property rights are rights of ownership, disposal, usufruct, use, residence or 
shared occupati on, rights of easement, waqfs, and rights which the law provides shall be 
deemed to be such.  
(2)  Consequential property rights are mortgages for security, possessory mortgages, and 
liens.  
  
Article (111)  
(1)  Moral rights are those which subsist over a non -material thing.  
(2)  Rights of authors, inventors, artists, and rights in trademarks  and other moral rights, shall 
be governed by the provisions of special laws.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  23 
 Part 4: Proof of rights  
1- Categories of ev idence  
Article (112)  
Evidence to prove a right shall take the following forms: - 
(a)  writing;  
(b)  testimony;  
(c) circumstantial evidence;  
(d)  eye-witness and expert evidence;  
(e)  admissions; and  
(f)  evidence on oath.  
  
2- General rules of proof  
Article (113)  
The burden lies on an obligee to prove his right, and on an obligor to refute it.  
  
Article (114)  
Writing, testimony and conclusive circumstant ial evidence, as well as eye- witness and 
expert evidence, shall be valid as against other parties, but an admission shall be valid 
against the maker thereof alone.  
  
Article (115)  
Any testimony by which an advantage is gained by or a detriment averted from the witness 
shall be rejected.  
  
Article (116)  
The testimony of a deaf person, and his oath, shall be admitted by his accustomed signs, if 
he is unable to write.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  24 
 Article (117)  
The burden of proof is upon him who asserts, and the oath (of denial) must be taken by him 
who denies.  
  
Article (118)  
(Independent) evidence must be produced to establish what is contrary to the apparent 
facts, and the oath must be taken to show that the facts presumed to exist are true.  
 
Article (119)  
The oath shall be accepted f rom one who takes it to discharge himself, but not to bind 
another.  
  
Article (120)  
(1)  The oath shall only be taken on the application of the opposing party.  
(2)  It shall be permissible for the judge, of his own motion, to direct that a party take th e 
oath in the following circumstances:  
(a)  if he claims a right in an inheritance and establishes the same, he shall take the oath of 
istithaq to show that he has not received what is due to him from the deceased, and that he has not discharged him, that he has not assigned his rights to another, and that there is no 
pledge in existence as against such right;  
(b)  in the event of proof of his entitlement to property, he shall take the oath to show that 
he has not sold such property or that he has not given it as a gift, or that it has not left his 
possession by any other means;  
(c)  in the event that a sale is rescinded for a defect, he must swear that he did not consent to 
the defect either by word or deed; or  
(d)  in the event of a judgment for a right of pre-emption, he must take the oath to show that 
his right of pre -emption has not lapsed for any reason.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  25 
 Article (121)  
The evidence of a translator registered in the special register shall be accepted, as laid down 
by law.  
  
Article (122)  
Conflicting ev idence shall have no force, but (sic) it shall be of no effect in the judgment of a 
court if it is proved thereafter, and an interested party shall have a claim for indemnity against the witness.  
  
3- Application of the rules of proof 
Article (123)  
In the rules and procedures for proof and the adducing of evidence of a right, the Courts 
shall apply the provisions laid down in special laws, to the extent that the same do not conflict with the foregoing provisions.  
 
Book One: Personal obligations and rights  
Section 1: Sources of obligation or personal rights  
Article (124)  
Personal obligations or rights shall arise out of dispositions, legal events and the law, and the sources of obligations shall be as follows:-  
1.  contracts;  
2.  unilateral acts;  
3.  acts causing harm (torts);  
4.  acts conferring a benefit; and  
5.  the law.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  26 
 Chapter  1: Contracts  
Part  1: General provisions 
Article (125)  
A contract is the coming together of an offer made by one of the contracting par ties with the 
acceptance of the other, together with the agreement of them both in such a manner as to 
determine the effect thereof on the subject matter of the contract, and from which results an 
obligation upon each of them with regard to that which each  is bound to do for the other.  
There may be a coincidence of more than two wills over the creation of the legal effect.  
  
Article (126)  
The following may be the subject matter of a contract:  
(a)  property, whether m oveable or immoveable, or corporeal or incorporeal;  
(b)  benefits derived from property;  
(c)  a particular act or service; and  
(d)  any other thing which is not prohibited by a provision of the law and is not contrary to 
public order or morals.  
  
Article (127)  
A contract to do an unlawful thing is unlawful.  
  
Article (128)  
(1)  The general provisions contained in this Part shall apply to nominate and innominate 
contracts.  
(2)  With regard to rules applying to certain contracts only, the special provisi ons governing 
the same shall be laid down in this Law or in other laws.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  27 
 Part  2: The elements, validity and effect of the contract, and options  
1- The making of the contract  
Article (129)  
The necessary elements for the making of a contract are: ‑ 
(a)  that the two parties to the contract should agree upon the essential elements;  
(b)  the subject matter of the contract must be something which is possible and defined or 
capable of being defined and permissible to be dealt in; and  
(c)  there must be a lawf ul purpose for the obligations arising out of the contract.  
 
Article (130)  
A contract shall be made by virtue solely of the confluence of offer and acceptance, subject 
to the specific provisions laid down for the making of the contract by law.  
  
Article (131) 
Both offer and acceptance are any expression of intent used to create a contract.  The first to 
be uttered is the offer, and the second the acceptance.  
  
Article (132)  
An expression of intent may be made orally or in writing, and may be expressed in th e past 
or present tense or in the imperative if the present time is intended or by such means as are 
customary even by a person who is not dumb, or by an interchange of acts demonstrating 
the mutual consent or by adopting any other course in respect of whi ch the circumstances 
leave no doubt that they demonstrate mutual consent.  
  
Article (133)  
The form of acceptance having the purport of a bare promise will give rise to a contract by way of binding promise if such is the intention of both parties.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  28 
 Article (134)  
(1)  An offer of goods or services accompanied by an indication of the consideration shall be 
regarded as an offer.  
(2)  A publication or advertisement or a current price list or any other statement connected 
with offers or orders directed towards the public or individuals shall not in the event of 
doubt be treated as offers but only as an invitation to enter into a contract. 
 
Article (135)  
(1)  A person who remains silent shall not be deemed to have made a statement, but silence 
in the face o f a circumstance in which a statement is called for shall be regarded as an 
acceptance.  
(2)  In particular, silence shall be deemed to be an acceptance if there has been a prior 
dealing between the contracting parties and the offer is related to such deali ng or if the offer 
will bring about a benefit to the person to whom it is made.  
  
Article (136)  
The contracting parties shall retain the option (to rescind) from the time the offer has been made until the time the majlis ends, and the offer shall be avoided if the offeror retracts it 
after making it and prior to its being accepted by the other side or if either of the contracting parties says or does anything to demonstrate that he is resiling from it, and no acceptance 
made after that shall be of any effec t. 
[Tr: This section embodies the Shari'a concept of "khiyar al -majlis" - literally "the option of 
the session".  This means that while the two parties are still in session, i.e.  they have not 
gone their separate ways, and are still effectively together, each party retains the right to 
revoke any agreement made between them from the moment they came together].  
  
Article (137)  
If the parties concern themselves during the majlis of the contract with extraneous matters, 
that shall be regarded as rejection of the matter in hand.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  29 
 Article (138)  
A repetition of the offer prior to acceptance annuls the first offer, and the last made offer 
shall be regarded as the valid one.  
 
Article (139)  
(1)  If a time is fixed for the acceptance to be given, the offeror shall be bound to keep to his 
offer until such time expires.  
(2)  The time may be inferred from the circumstances of the case or from the nature of the 
transaction.  
  
Article (140)  
(1)  The acceptance must coincide with the offer.  
(2)  If the acceptance exceeds the subject matter of the offer or places a restriction on it or 
varies it, that shall be regarded as a rejection containing a new offer.  
  
Article (141)  
(1)  A contract may only be made upon the agreement of the two parties to the essential 
elemen ts of the obligation, and the other lawful conditions which the parties regard as 
essential.  
(2)  If the parties agree on the essential elements of the obligation and the remainder of the 
other lawful conditions which both parties regard as essential and t hey leave matters of 
detail to be agreed upon afterwards but they do not stipulate that the contract shall not be 
regarded as made in the event of absence of agreement upon such matters, the contract 
shall be deemed to have been made, and if a dispute aris es as to the matters which have not 
been agreed upon, the judge shall adjudicate thereon in accordance with the nature of the 
transaction and the provisions of the law. 
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  30 
 Article (142)  
(1)  A contract made between parties not in each other's presence shal l be deemed to have 
been made at the time and place at which the offeror learns of the acceptance unless there is 
an agreement or a provision of the law to the contrary.  
(2)  The offeror shall be deemed to have learned of the acceptance at the time and pla ce at 
which such acceptance reaches him unless there is evidence to the contrary.  
 
Article (143)  
A contract made by telephone or by any similar means shall be regarded, so far as concerns place, as if it had been made between the contracting parties otherwise than in a single 
majlis with them both present at the time of the contract, and with regard to time, it shall be 
regarded as having been made between those present at the majlis.  
  
Article (144)  
A contract by way of auction shall only be made by the bi d being accepted, and an offer shall 
lapse upon a higher offer being made even though the higher offer may be void, or upon the auction ending without a bid being accepted.  
  
Article (145)  
Acceptance in contracts of adhesion shall be by virtue of simple delivery on conditions similar to those made to all his customers by an offeror who does not accept any negotiation 
about those conditions.  
  
Article (146)  
(1)  An agreement whereby both or one of the contracting parties undertake to make a 
specific contract  in the future may only be made if all of the essential matters of the contract 
intended to be made and the period within which it is to be made are specified.  
(2)  If the law requires that for a contract to be perfected a certain specified form should be 
used, that form must likewise be observed in the agreement containing the promise to make  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  31 
 such contract.  
Article (147)  
If a person promises to make a contract and then renegues and is sued by the other person 
for the performance of the promise and the c onditions necessary for the making of the 
contract, in particular the form, are satisfied, the judgment shall, when it becomes final, 
stand as the contract.  
  
Article (148)  
(1)  Payment of earnest money shall be regarded as evidence that the contract has become 
final and irrevocable unless the agreement or custom are to the contrary.  
(2)  If the two parties agree that the earnest money shall be forfeited in the event of 
reneguing, each of them shall have the right to renegue, and if the person who has paid the 
money renegues he shall lose it, and if the person receiving it renegues, he shall pay over 
double that amount.  
 
2- Agency in contracting  
Article (149)  
A contract may be made by a principal and it may also be made by an agent unless the law 
stipulates  otherwise.  
  
Article (150)  
(1)  The agency in the contract may be by agreement or by law.  
(2)  The deed of agency {power of attorney) issued by the principal shall specify the extent of 
the powers of the agent if the agency is by agreement, and the law sh all specify such powers 
if the agency is by law. 
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  32 
 Article (151)  
If a person makes a contract on his own and for his own account then he shall be bound by 
the provisions of it to the exclusion of other persons.  
  
Article (152)  
(1)  If a contract is made by means of an agency, it is the person of the agent and not the 
person of the principal to whom regard shall be had when considering defects in consent or 
the effect of knowledge of certain special circumstances or a presumption of knowledge 
thereof.  
(2)  Nevertheless, if the deputy is an agent acting in accordance with specific instructions 
given to him by his principal, the principal may not rely on the ignorance of the agent of 
circumstances of which the principal knew or which he is presumed to have k nown.  
  
Article (153)  
If the agent makes a contract within the limits of his authority in the name of the principal, 
the provisions of that contract and the rights (obligations) arising therefrom shall devolve 
upon the principal.  
  
Article (154)  
If the par ty making a contract does not state at the time the contract is made that he is 
contracting in his capacity as agent, the effect of the contract will not attach to the principal either as obligeee or obligor unless it is conclusively presumed that the pers on with whom 
the agent contracted knew that he was an agent or if it was a matter of indifference for him whether he was contracting with the principal or the agent.  
 
 
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  33 
 Article (155)  
If the agent and the person contracting with him are both ignorant at t he time the contract is 
made of the agency having been terminated, the effect of the contract made by the agent 
will attach to the principal or his successors.  
  
Article (156)  
It shall not be permissible for a person to contract with himself in the name of  the person for 
whom he is an agent whether the contract is for his own account or for the account of another party without authorisation from the principal, but provided that it is permissible or the principal in that event to approve the contract, having  regard in all of the above to any 
contrary provisions of the law or commercial practice.  
  
3- The capacity to contract  
Article (157)  
Every person shall have capacity to contract unless that capacity is taken from him or restricted by operation of law.  
  
Article (158)  
A minor who is not of the age of discretion shall not have the right to deal in his property, 
and all his dealings shall be void.  
  
Article (159)  
(1)  Financial dealings of a minor of the age of discretion shall be valid if they are purely for 
his own benefit, and void if they are purely to his detriment.  
(2)  Dealings falling between pure benefit and pure detriment shall depend upon the 
consent of the guardian within the limits within which it is permissible for him to make 
dispositions either immediately or by ratification by the minor after his attaining the age of 
adulthood.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  34 
 (3)  The age of discretion shall be 7 complete Hijra years.  
 
Article (160)  
(1)  A guardian may permit a minor who has reached the age of 18 Hijra years to receive all 
or part of his property to administer it.  
(2)  It shall be permissible for the court upon hearing the evidence of the guardian to permit 
a minor who has attained the age of 18 Hijra years to receive all or some of his property to 
administer it.  
(3)  The pro visions relating to the above shall be laid down by law.  
  
Article (161)  
A minor who is authorised to make dealings within the terms of the authorisation shall have the same status as an adult.  
  
Article (162 ) 
It shall not be permissible for a minor whether under guardianship or tutelage to trade 
unless he has attained the age of 18 Hijra years, and the court has given him absolute or 
limited authority so to do.  
  
Article (163)  
(1)  A judge may grant authorisation to a minor of the age of discretion where h is guardian 
has withheld authorisation, and the guardian may impose no restriction upon the minor thereafter.  
(2)  The judge may, after giving authorisation, reimpose the restriction upon the minor.  
  
Article (164)  
The guardian of the property of a minor s hall be first his father then the executor of his 
father then the true grandfather then the judge or the guardian appointed by the judge.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  35 
   
Article (165)  
The law shall determine the necessary capacity which the guardian must have in order to 
exercise his r ights of guardianship over property.  
  
Article (166)  
Contracts of administration issued by a guardian over the property of a minor shall be valid and effective in accordance with the conditions and provisions laid down by law.  
  
Article (167)  
Dispositions made by the guardian in respect of the property of a minor not falling within 
acts of administration shall be valid and effective in accordance with the provisions and conditions laid down by law.  
  
Article (168)  
(1)  Minors, insane persons and imbeciles shall be ipso facto under a restriction.  
(2)  With regard to idiots and persons under a mental disability, the judge shall impose 
restrictions upon them and lift such restrictions in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down by law.  
(3)  Notice sha ll be given of the restricting order to the persons so restricted, and the reason 
therefor shall be publicly declared.  
  
Article (169)  
Adult insane persons and imbeciles who are under a restriction shall be of the same status as 
a minor of no capacity.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  36 
 Article (170)  
(1)  Dispositions made by an idiot or person suffering from a mental disability occurring 
after either an application for a restriction has been made or after an order in that behalf has 
been made or after an application or order for restora tion of guardianship has been made 
shall be subject to the same provisions as govern dispositions made by persons of defective 
capacity.  
(2)  With regard to dispositions made prior to such restriction, they shall not be void or 
voidable unless they result from exploitation or conspiracy.  
  
Article (171)  
(1)  It shall be permissible for the court to permit a person under a restriction on the grounds 
of idiocy or mental disability to have all or part of his property for administration thereof.  
(2)  The law shall lay down provisions in that behalf.  
  
Article (172)  
The laws shall set out the procedures to be followed with regard to restrictions over 
restricted persons, the management and exploitation of their property, and dealing therein, 
and other questions re lating to guardianship, tutelage and protection.  
  
Article (173)  
If a person is deaf and dumb or blind and deaf, or blind and dumb and he is by reason 
thereof unable to express his intent, it shall be permissible for the judge to appoint a judicial 
assistant for him to help him in his dispositions if his interests so require, in such manner as 
is laid down by law.  
  
Article (174)  
Dispositions made by guardians, tutors or protectors shall be valid within the limits laid 
down by law.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  37 
 Article (175)  
If a pers on of defective capacity uses deceitful means to conceal his defect in capacity, he 
shall be bound to pay compensation.  
  
4- Defects in Consent  
a- Duress  
Article (176)  
Duress is coercion of a person without the right of so doing to perform an act without  his 
consent.  Duress may be forcible or non -forcible, and may be material or moral.  
  
Article (177)  
Duress is forcible if it is threat of grave and imminent danger to person or property.  It is 
non -forcible if it involves a lesser threat.  
  
Article (178)  
A threat to cause harm to a person's parents, children, spouse or sibling or a threat of a risk 
prejudicial to honour shall be regarded as duress, and may be forcible or non -forcible as the 
case may be.  
Article (179 ) 
Forcible duress nullifies consent and v itiates free choice.  Non -forcible duress nullifies but 
does not vitiate free choice.  
  
Article (180)  
Duress may vary according to different persons, their age, weakness, position, rank, 
influence, the degree to which they are hurt by the duress whether lesser or greater, and by any factor which may affect the seriousness of the duress.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  38 
 Article (181 ) 
In order for there to be duress the person exercising it must be capable of carrying out his 
threat, and the victim must believe that the threat will be car ried out immediately if he does 
not do that which he is coerced into doing.  
  
Article (182)  
A person who exercises either kind of duress to conclude a contract may not enforce his contract, but the contract will be valid if the victim or his heirs so permi t after the threat has 
ceased, either expressly or by their acts.  
  
Article (183)  
If a husband coerces his wife by beating her or forbidding her to see her family or the like, to cede to him a right of hers or to give him property, the disposition will not  be effective.  
  
Article (184)  
If the duress is exercised otherwise than by one of the contracting parties, the person 
coerced into contracting may not claim that the contract is ineffective unless he proves that 
the other contracting party knew or is pres umed to have known of the duress.  
  
b- Deception and cheating  
Article (185)  
Misrepresentation is when one of the two contracting parties deceives the other by means of trickery of word or deed which leads the other to consent to what he would not otherwise 
have consented to.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  39 
 Article (186)  
Deliberate silence concerning a fact or set of circumstances shall be deemed to be a 
misrepresentation if it is proved that the person misled thereby would not have made the 
contract had he been aware of that fact or set of circumstances.  
  
Article (187)  
If one of the contracting parties makes a misrepresentation to the other and it transpires that 
the contract was concluded by a gross cheat, the person so misled may cancel the contract.  
  
Article (188 ) 
Gross cheating involving land or otherwise is a bargain which no ordinary person 
conversant with that market could contemplate as reasonable.  
  
Article (189 ) 
If the cheating, however, slight, affects the property of a person under judicial restriction on 
account of a debt or a terminally ill person, and that person's liabilities exceed his assets, the 
contract shall be dependent upon the cheating being redressed, or the consent of the 
creditors, otherwise it shall be void.  
  
Article (190 ) 
If the misrepresentation is made by a person other than the contracting parties, and the 
person to whom the misrepresentation was made proves that the other contracting party 
knew of the misrepresentation, it shall be permissible for him to cancel the contract.  
  
Article (191 ) 
A contract may not be cancelled on the basis of a gross cheat in the absence of 
misrepresentation save in respect of property of a person under restriction, waqf property, 
and property of the State.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  40 
 Article (192 ) 
The right to cancel for misrepresentation and gross ch eat shall lapse on the death of the 
person having the right to apply for the cancellation or upon a dealing made in the subject 
matter of the contract in whole or in part in such a way as implies consent, or if the property is destroyed while in the posses sion of the person who would otherwise have such right, or 
if he consumes it, damages it, or increases it.  
  
c- Mistake  
Article (193 ) 
No regard shall be had for any mistake save in so far as it is contained in the form of the contract or demonstrated by th e surrounding circumstances and conditions, or the nature of 
things, or custom.  
  
Article (194)  
If there is a mistake as to the identity of the contract or as to one of the conditions upon 
which it is made or as to the subject matter of the contract, the contract shall be void.  
  
Article (195)  
A contracting party shall have the right to cancel the contract if he has made a mistake in a 
desired (non -essential) matter such as a characteristic of the subject matter of the contract or 
the identity of the other  contracting party or as to a characteristic of such person.  
  
Article (196)  
A contracting party shall have the right to cancel the contract if he makes a mistake of law and the conditions relating to a mistake of fact under Articles 193 and 195 are satisfied, 
unless the law provides otherwise.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  41 
 Article (197)  
A mere mistake in an account or in a writing shall not affect the contract, and it shall simply 
be rectified.  
  
Article (198)  
A person who has made a mistake may not rely on it in a manner inconsiste nt with good 
faith.  
  
5- The subject matter and purpose of the contract  
a- The subject matter of the contract  
Article (199)  
Every contract must have a subject matter to which it attaches.  
  
Article (200)  
(1)  In transactions involving property, the subject matter of the contract must be property 
which may lawfully be dealt in.  
 (2)  The subject matter may be specific property or a benefit or any other right in property, 
and likewise the subject matter may be an act or refraining from an act.  
  
Article (201) 
If the subject matter is inherently impossible at the time the contract is made, the contract shall be void.  
 
Article (202)  
(1)  A future thing may properly be the subject matter of commutative contracts involving 
property, in the absence of uncertainty  (Gharar see Chapter IV of Book Two).  
(2)  It shall not, however, be permissible to deal in the after death estate of a person still  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  42 
 living notwithstanding that that person may have consented, save in the cases provided for 
by law.  
  
Article (203)  
(1)  In commutative contracts involving property the subject matter must be specified in 
such a way as to avoid gross uncertainty by reference to it or to the place where it is if it is in 
existence at the time of the contract or a statement of its distinguishing  character­istics, and 
the amount thereof must be stated if it is measurable property or the like, so as to avoid 
gross uncertainty.  
(2)  If the subject matter is known to both contracting parties there is no requirement that it 
should be otherwise described or defined.  
(3)  If the subject matter is not specified as aforesaid, the contract shall be void.  
  
Article (204)  
If the subject matter of the disposition or the consideration therefor is money, its amount and type must be specified without any increase or decrease in the value of that money at 
the time of payment having any effect.  
  
Article (205)  
(1)  The subject matter must be such as falls within the ambit of a contract.  
(2)  If the law prohibits dealing in a thing or if it is contrary to public order or morals, the 
contract shall be void.  
  
Article (206)  
The contract may be accompanied by a condition confirming its purport or consistent with it or in accordance with usage and custom or containing an advantage to one of the 
contracting parties or a t hird party, provided that in the case of all of the foregoing it is not 
prohibited by law or contrary to public order or morals, otherwise the condition shall be 
void and the contract shall be valid, unless the condition is the inducement to make the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  43 
 contr act, in which case the contract also shall be void. 
  
b- The purpose of the contract  
Article (207)  
(1)  The reason is the direct purpose aimed at by the contract.  
(2)  The reason must be existent, valid, and permitted, and not contrary to public order or 
morals.  
  
Article (208)  
(1)  The contract shall not be valid if it does not contain a lawful benefit to both contracting 
parties.  
(2)  A contract shall be presumed to contain such lawful benefit unless there is evidence to 
the contrary.  
  
6- Valid, void a nd defective contracts 
a- The valid contract.  
Article (209)  
A valid contract is a contract which is lawful in its essence and description, being made by a 
competent person in respect of a subject matter properly falling within the ambit of a contract, havi ng an existing, valid and lawful purpose and in proper form, and 
unaccompanied by any vitiating condition.  
  
b- The void contract  
Article (210) 
(1)  A void contract is one which is unlawful in its essence and form, lacking the elements of 
a contract or defective in its subject matter or purpose or form as laid down by law for the 
making of a contract, and such contract shall be of no effect and shall not be capable of 
being rectified by consent.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  44 
 (2)  Any person having an interest may rely on the voidness of the contract and a judge may 
so rule of his own motion.  
(3)  No claim (for a declaration) that a contract is void shall be heard after the expiry of 15 
years from the date the contract was made, but any person having an interest may raise the 
defence of  the voidness of the contract at any time.  
  
Article (211)  
(1)  If part of a contract is void the entire contract shall be void unless the subject matter of 
each part is (separately) specified in which case it shall be void as to the void part, and the 
rem ainder shall be valid.  
(2)  If part of a contract is dependent upon the grant of a consent, then if the consent is given 
the whole contract will be effective and if the consent is not given only that part will be void 
together with the consideration theref or, and the remainder of the contract with its 
consideration will be valid.  
  
c- The defective contract  
Article (212)  
(1)  A voidable contract is one which is lawful in its essence but not in form, and if the cause 
of the voidability is removed, the contra ct shall be valid.  
(2)  A transfer of ownership under a voidable contract shall only be effective if the property 
itself has been received.  
(3)  A voidable contract shall only have effect within the area laid down by the provisions of 
the law.  
(4)  Each o f the parties to the contract and their heirs shall have the right to cancel the 
contract after giving notice to the other contracting parties.  
  
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  45 
 7- Suspended and non- binding contracts  
a- The suspended contract  
Article (213)  
A disposition shall be dependent for the effectiveness thereof upon ratification if it is made 
by a volunteer in respect of property belonging to another or by an owner in respect of 
property of his encumbered by a third party right or by a person lacking capacity in respect 
of his own property, where such transaction lies in the area between (pure) advantage and 
(pure) detriment or is made under duress, or if the law so provides.  
  
Article (214)  
The right to grant or withhold consent to the contract shall be that of the owner or th e 
person in whose favour the right over the thing contracted for exists, or in the tutor or 
guardian, or in the person of defective capacity after the defect has been remedied, or the 
person who has suffered duress after the duress has been removed, or suc h person to whom 
the law gives that power.  
  
Article (215)  
(1)  Consent may be by any act or word indicating the same expressly or by implication.  
(2)  Silence shall be taken to be consent if by custom it indicates consent.  
  
Article (216)  
It is a condition of the validity of the consent that the disposition should have been one 
capable of  being consented to at the time it was made and at the time the consent is given, 
and it is likewise a condition that at the time the consent is given, th ere should be in 
existence the person who had the right to give the consent, the two parties to the contract, the subject matter of the contract, or a substitute therefor if it is a specified thing.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  46 
 Article (217)  
(1)  If consentis given to a suspended t ransaction, it shall become effective retroactively to 
the time it was made, and the subsequent consent shall have the same effect as a prior 
agency.  
(2)  If consent is refused, the disposition shall be void.  
  
b- The non- binding contract  
Article (218)  
(1) A contract shall not be binding on one or both of the contracting parties despite its 
validity and effectiveness if there is a condition that such party may cancel it without mutual 
consent or an order of the court.  
(2)  Each party may act unilaterally i n cancelling it if by its nature the contract is not binding 
upon him or if he has made it a condition in his own favour that he has the option to cancel.  
 
8- Options affecting the binding nature of the contract  
a- The option of conditionality 
Article (219 ) 
In binding contracts which are liable to be cancelled it shall be permissible for the 
contracting parties or either of them to make it a condition in the contract or thereafter that he should enjoy the benefit of the option of conditionality in his own o r another's favour for 
such period as may be agreed between the parties, and if they do not agree on a particular 
period, it shall be permissible for the judge to specify that period in accordance with custom.  
  
 
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  47 
 Article (220)  
If each of the two contracting parties has the advantage of the benefit of conditionality in 
commutative contracts involving property and the consideration on both sides has not left 
the ownership of either of the contracting parties but one then exercises  the option to 
cancel, that property shall not pass out of his ownership neither shall the property of the 
other pass into the ownership of the first.  
  
Article (221)  
(1)  The person having the benefit of the option of conditionality shall have the right t o 
cancel or to affirm the contract.  
(2)  If he elects to confirm the contract, it shall become binding with retroactive effect to the 
date on which it was made, and if he elects to cancel it, the contract shall be cancelled and 
deemed void ab initio.  
  
Article (222 ) 
If both of the contracting parties have the advantage of the option of conditionality and one of them elects to cancel the contract, the contract shall be cancelled notwithstanding that 
the other may have affirmed, and if one affirms the contrac t the other shall retain his option 
to cancel throughout the period laid down for the option.  
  
Article (223)  
(1)  Cancellation or affirmation may take place by any act or word indicating the same, 
whether expressly or by implication.  
(2)  If the period expires without the option to cancel or to affirm being exercised, the 
contract shall become binding.  
 
 
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  48 
 Article (224)  
(1)  In order for the cancellation to be valid, the option in that behalf must have been 
exercised within the period thereof and the other party notified thereof if the cancellation is 
effected by words and is not dependent on mutual consent or an order of the court.  
(2)  With regard to affirmation, it is not a requirement (of the contract becoming binding) 
that the other party should know of it.  
  
Article (225 ) 
The option shall lapse upon the death of the person entitled to exercise it during the period 
thereof.  The contract shall become binding with regard to his heirs, and the other party shall 
retain his option, if he originally had an option, until the expiry of the period thereof.  
  
b- The option to inspect  
Article (226)  
The option to inspect shall arise in c ontracts liable to cancellation in favour of the person to 
whom the disposition is made even though not expressly stipulated if the subject matter of 
the contract has not been seen, and is specified.  
  
Article (227)  
The option to inspect shall remain until  the inspection is carried out within the agreed 
period, or until anything occurs which causes it to lapse.  
  
Article (228)  
The option to inspect shall not prevent the contract becoming effective but will only prevent 
it becoming binding on the person in whose favour the option exists.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  49 
 Article (229)  
(1)  The option to inspect shall not lapse by non -exercise.  
(2)  The option will lapse upon the inspection of the thing contracted for and its acceptance 
whether expressly or by implication, and it will likewise lapse upon the death of the person 
having the option, the destruction of the goods concerned, whether in whole or in part, or by 
their becoming defective, or the disposition thereof by a person having the right so to do by 
way of a disposition which may not be cancelled, or in such a way as gives rise to a right in a 
third party.  
  
Article (230 ) 
Cancellation under the option to inspect may be by any act or word indi cating the same 
whether expressly or by implication, but on condition that the other contracting party is aware thereof.  
  
c-The option to specify (one out of two or more potential objects of the 
contract)  
Article (231)  
It shall be permissible to agree tha t the subject matter of the contract shall be one of two or 
three things, and that one of the contracting parties should have the right to choose between 
them on condition that the consideration for each and the period of the option is expressed.  
  
Article (232)  
If the contracting parties do not specify the period of the option or if the period laid down for 
one of them to exercise it expires without the election being made, it shall be permissible for 
the other party to apply  to the judge to fix the period of the option or to determine the 
subject matter of the disposition.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  50 
 Article (233)  
The contract shall not be binding upon the person having the right to exercise the option 
until that right is exercised, and if the option is exercised expressly or by implication the 
contract shall become binding and effective in connection with the subject matter over which the option is exercised.  
  
Article (234)  
The exercise of the option shall relate back to the time the contract came into existence.  
  
Article (235 ) 
(1)  If the option to select is vested in a purchaser and one of the two things is lost while in 
the hands of the seller, the purchaser shall have the option if he so wishes to take the other 
thing at its price or to leave it, but if both things are lost,  the sale shall be void.  
If the loss takes place after the purchaser has received the things to be sold and one of the two things is lost while in the hands of the purchaser, that thing shall be designated as the 
thing sold and the purchaser shall be bound  to pay the price, and the other thing shall be 
regarded as being held in trust.  
If the two things are lost in succession, the first shall be regarded as the thing sold and the second as held in trust, and if they are lost simultaneously the purchaser shal l be bound to 
pay half the price of each.  
(2)  If the option to appoint is vested in the seller and one of the things is lost before or after 
receipt, the seller shall have the right to elect either that the purchaser shall be bound to take 
the remaining t hing or that the contract be cancelled, and if both things are lost before 
receipt, the contract shall be void.  
If the two things are lost in succession after receipt, the first thing lost shall be regarded as 
held in trust and the second as the thing sold, and if they are lost at the same time, the purchaser shall be bound to pay half the price of each.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  51 
 Article (236)  
If the person having the option to appoint dies during the period of the option, his right shall 
be transferred to his heirs.  
 
d- The o ption to reject for defects  
Article (237 ) 
Contracts capable of being cancelled shall carry with them the right to cancel the contract 
under the defects option without there being a condition in that behalf in the contract.  
  
Article (238 ) 
In order for a defect to give rise to an option to reject, it must be old (pre- existing), it must 
affect the value of the subject matter of the contract, it must be unknown to the purchaser, and the seller must not have contracted for an exemption from liability in respect  of it.  
  
Article (239 ) 
(1)  If the conditions set out in the preceding Article are satisfied in respect of a defect, the 
contract is not binding on the person having the right to exercise the option before taking delivery, and is liable to cancellation th ereafter.  
(2)  The contract will be cancelled prior to taking delivery by any matter demonstrating the 
same, without the need for mutual agreement or an order of the court on condition that the other party is aware (of the cancellation), but after delivery  has been taken cancellation 
must be by mutual consent or by order of the court.  
  
Article (240)  
If a contract is cancelled by reason of a defect, the subject matter of the contract is to be returned to the owner, and the price paid is recoverable.  
  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  52 
 Article (241)  
(1)  The option to reject for a defect shall lapse by non -exercise or by acceptance of the 
defect after knowledge thereof, by dealing in the thing contracted for even prior to such 
knowledge, by its being destroyed or damaged after receipt or by  its being increased prior to 
receipt by way of direct connection with the thing, not arising from the thing itself, by the act 
of the purchaser, or after receipt by way of a single increase arising out of the thing itself.  
(2)  The option to reject for a defect shall not lapse by reason of the death of the person 
having that option, but shall enure to the benefit of his heirs. 
  
Article (242 ) 
The person having the option to reject for a defect may also retain the thing contracted for and claim for the redu ction in value.  
  
Part  3: The effects of the contract  
1- With regard to the contracting parties  
Article (243) 
(1)  The contract shall apply to the subject matter of the contract and the consideration 
therefor as soon as the contract is made, and shall not depend upon receipt or any other 
thing unless the law provides otherwise.  
(2)  With regard to the rights (obligations) arising out of the contract, each of the contracting 
parties must perform that which he is obliged to do under the contract.  
  
Article (244 ) 
In the case of commutative contracts for specific property, provided the conditions for the validity thereof are satisfied, each of the contracting parties must have an established right 
to dispose of the property, and each shall have an obligation to deliver the subject matter of 
the contract to the other.  
    
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  53 
 Article (245 ) 
In the case of commutative contracts to derive benefits from property, provided the 
conditions for the validity thereof are satisfied, the person dealing in the property shall have 
the obligation to deliver it to the usufructuary, and the usufructuary shall have the obligation to deliver the consideration for the benefit to the owner of the property.  
  
Article (246 ) 
(1)  The contract must be performed in accordance with its contents,  and in a manner 
consistent with the requirements of good faith.  
(2)  The contract shall not be restricted to an obligation upon the contracting party to do that 
which is (expressly) contained in it, but shall also embrace that which is appurtenant to it b y 
virtue of the law, custom, and the nature of the transaction.  
  
Article (247 ) 
In contracts binding upon both parties, if the mutual obligations are due for performance, 
each of the parties may refuse to perform his obligation if the other contracting par ty does 
not perform that which he is obliged to do.  
  
Article (248 ) 
If the contract is made by way of adhesion and contains unfair provisions, it shall be 
permissible for the judge to vary those provisions or to exempt the adhering party therefrom 
in accor dance with the requirements of justice, and any agreement to the contrary shall be 
void.  
  
Article (249 ) 
If exceptional circumstances of a public nature which could not have been foreseen occur as 
a result of which the performance of the contractual obliga tion, even if not impossible, 
becomes oppressive for the obligor so as to threaten him with grave loss, it shall be permissible for the judge, in accordance with the circumstances and after weighing up the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  54 
 interests of each party, to reduce the oppressive obligation to a reasonable level if justice so 
requires, and any agreement to the contrary shall be void.  
 
2- With regard to third parties  
Article (250 ) 
The effects of the contract shall extend to the contracting parties and their general 
successors witho ut prejudice to the rules relating to inheritance, unless it appears from the 
contract or from the nature of the transaction or from the provisions of the law that the effects were not to extend to a general successor.  
  
Article (251 ) 
If the contract gives  rise to personal rights connected with a thing transferred thereafter to a 
special successor, such rights shall be transferred to such successor at the time at which the 
thing is transferred if it is one of the appurtenances thereof and the special successor was 
aware of those rights at the time of the transfer of the thing to him.  
  
Article (252 ) 
A contract may not impose an obligation upon a third party but it may create a right in him.  
  
Article (253 ) 
(1)  If a person undertakes to procure a third party  to enter into an obligation the third party 
will not be bound by that undertaking, and if the third party refuses to be bound the person making the undertaking must compensate the other contracting party.  
He may nevertheless be released from having to mak e compensation by himself performing 
the obligation in respect of which he gave the undertaking.  
(2)  If however the third party agrees to the undertaking, his agreement shall take effect only 
from the time it was given, unless it appeared that he expressl y or impliedly intended that 
the effect of the agreement should relate back to the time the undertaking was made.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  55 
 Article (254 ) 
(1)  It shall be permissible for a person to contract in his own name imposing a condition 
that rights are to enure to the ben efit of a third party if he has a personal interest, whether 
material or moral, in the performance thereof.  
(2)  Such a condition shall confer upon the third party a direct right against the undertaker 
for the performance of that condition in the contract enabling him to demand the 
performance thereof unless there is a contrary agreement, and such undertaker may rely as 
against the beneficiary on any defences arising out of the contract.  
(3)  The person making the condition may also demand the performance of the condition in 
favour of the beneficiary, unless it appears from the contract that the beneficiary alone has 
such a right.  
  
Article (255 ) 
(1)  The person imposing that condition in the contract, but not his obligees or heirs, may 
cancel that condition  before the beneficiary gives notice to the undertaker or the person 
imposing the condition of his intention to benefit thereby, unless that is contrary to the 
purport of the contract.  
(2)  The cancellation of the condition shall not relieve the undertaker  of his obligation to the 
party imposing it unless there is an express or implied agreement to the contrary.  
The person imposing the condition may replace the first beneficiary by another, and he may 
also allocate the benefit of the condition for himself.  
  
Article (256 ) 
In imposing a condition in favour of a third party it shall be permissible for the beneficiary to be a future person or future body, and the beneficiary may also be a person or body not 
specified at the time the contract is made if such ben eficiary is ascertainable at the time the 
contract is to be given effect to in accordance with the condition.  
 
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  56 
 Section 4 : The construction of contracts  
Article (257 ) 
The basic principle in contracts is the consent of the contracting parties and that whi ch they 
have undertaken to do in the contract.  
  
Article (258 ) 
(1)  The criterion in (the construction of) contracts is intentions and meanings and not words 
and form.  
(2)  The primary rule is that words have their true meaning and a word may not be 
construed figuratively unless it is impossible to give it its direct meaning.  
  
Article (259 ) 
There shall be no scope for implications in the face of clear words.  
  
Article (260 ) 
Words should be given effect to rather than ignored, but if it is impossible to give effect to 
words, they shall be ignored.  
  
Article (261 ) 
Reference to part of an indivisible shall count as reference to the whole.  
  
Article (262 ) 
An unconditional provisi on shall be so construed unless there is evidence, whether textual 
or circumstantial, restricting it.  
  
Article (263 ) 
A description of that which is present is a superfluity, but a description of that which is absent shall have effect.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  57 
 Article (264 ) 
Known custom as between merchants shall have the effect of (express) conditions made 
between them.  
  
Article (265 ) 
(1) If the wording of a contract is clear, it may not be departed from by way of interpretation to ascertain the intention of the parties. 
(2) If there is scope for an interpretative construction of the contract, an enquiry shall be made into the mutual intentions of the parties beyond the literal meaning of the words, and 
guidance may be sought in so doing from the nature of the transaction, a nd the trust and 
confidence which should exist between the parties in accordance with the custom current in (such) dealings.  
  
Article (266 ) 
(1) A doubt shall be resolved in favour of the obligor.  
(2) Nevertheless it shall not be permissible to construe ambiguous words in contracts of 
adhesion in a manner detrimental to the interests of the adhering party. 
  
Part 5: The dissolution of a contract  
1- General provisions  
Article (267 ) 
If the contract is valid and binding, it shall not be permissible for either of the contracting 
parties to resile from it, nor to vary or rescind it, save by mutual consent or an order of the 
court, or under a provision of the law.  
  
Article (268 ) 
The contracting parties may mutually revoke the contract by their mutual consent after it 
has been concluded.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  58 
 Article (269 ) 
So far as concerns the contracting parties revocation amounts to cancellation, and with 
regard to a third party amounts to a new c ontract.  
  
Article (270 ) 
Revocation shall be by offer and acceptance in the session (majlis), and by receiving (back 
the thing contracted for) on condition that the subject matter of the contract is in existence 
and in the possession of the contracting par ty at the time of the revocation, and if part of it 
has been lost the revocation shall be valid as to the remainder to the extent of the amount of 
the consideration attributable to it.  
  
Article (271 ) 
It shall be permissible to agree that a contract shall be regarded as being cancelled 
spontaneously (automatically) without the need for a judicial order failing performance of 
the obligations arising thereout, and such agreement shall not dispense with notice unless 
the contracting parties have expressl y agreed that it should be dispensed with.  
  
Article (272 ) 
(1) In contracts binding on both parties, if one of the parties does not do what he is obliged to do under the contract, the other party may, after giving notice to the obligor, require that 
the contract be performed or cancelled.  
(2) The judge may order the obligor to perform the contract forthwith or may defer (performance) to a specified time, and he may also order that the contract be cancelled and 
compensation paid in any case if appropriate.  
  
Article (273 ) 
(1) In contracts binding on both parties, if force majeure supervenes which makes the performance of the obligation impossible, the corresponding obligation shall cease, and the 
contract shall be automatically cancelled.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  59 
 (2) In the case of partial impossibility, that part of the contract which is impossible shall be 
extinguished, and the same shall apply to temporary impossibility in continuing contracts, 
and in those two cases it shall be permissible for the obligee to ca ncel the contract provided 
that the obligor is so aware.  
  
2- The effects of dissolution of the contract  
Article (274 ) 
If the contract is cancelled automatically or by the act of the parties, the two contracting parties shall be restored to the position th ey were in before the contract was made, and if 
that is not possible, compensation shall be ordered.  
  
Article (275 ) 
If the contract is dissolved by reason of voidness or cancellation or through any other cause 
and each of the parties is obliged to return that which he has obtained, it shall be permissible 
for each of them to detain what he has received so long as the other party has not returned 
what he has received from the former, or provided security for such return.  
  
Part 2 : Unilateral dispositions  
Article (276 ) 
It shall be permissible for a disposition to take place through the unilateral intention of the disponor without depending on the acceptance of the disponee unless a third party becomes obligated in any respect as laid down in the law, provided that there is no provision 
in the law to the contrary.  
  
Article (277 ) 
The provisions relating to contracts shall apply to unilateral acts with the exception of those 
provisions relating necessarily to the existence of a mutual corresponding intention to 
establish a contract, unless the law provides to the contrary.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  60 
 Article (278 ) 
If the elements and conditions of a unilateral disposition are satisfie d, it shall not be 
permissible for the disponor to resile from it, unless the law provides to the contrary.  
  
Article (279 ) 
(1) If the unilateral disposition amounts to a passing of property, then it shall only be 
effective with regard to the disponee upon  his acceptance thereof.  
(2) If the act is a waiver amounting to a passing of property or a discharge from an 
obligation, it shall be effective with regard to the disponee but may be retracted during the 
time of the majlis.  
(3)  If the act is a pure waiver , it shall be effective with regard to the disponee and may not be 
retracted.  
(4)  All of the above is subject to any provision of the law to the contrary.  
  
Article (280 ) 
(1) A promise is something imposed by a person on himself in favour of another relat ing to 
the future, otherwise than by way of an obligation with regard to property, and it may be for 
a contract or to do an act.  
(2) A promise binds the maker unless he dies or becomes bankrupt.  
  
Article (281 ) 
(1) Whoever promises a prize to the public for performing a particular act and fixes a time limit for it shall be bound to give the prize to the person who performs that act notwithstanding that the act was performed without regard to the promise of the prize.  
(2) If the promisor does not fix a time limit for the performance of the act it shall be permissible for him to resile from his promise by a public notice but provided that that shall 
not affect the rights of a person who has performed the act prior to the revocation of the 
promise.  No claim fo r the prize shall be heard unless it is brought within three months from 
the date of notice being given of the revocation of the promise.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  61 
 Chapter Three:  Acts causing harm  
Part 1: General provisions  
Article (282 ) 
Any harm done to another shall render the act or, even though not a person of discretion, 
liable to make good the harm.  
  
Article (283 ) 
(1) Harm may be direct or consequential.  
(2) If the harm is direct, it must unconditionally be made good, and if it is consequential 
there must be a wrongful or deliberate element and the act must have led to the damage.  
  
Article (284 ) 
If the harm is both direct and consequential, the rules rela ting to direct harm shall apply.  
  
Article (285 ) 
If a person deceives another he shall be liable to make good the harm resulting from that 
deception.  
  
Article (286 ) 
No person who has been caused loss in his property by another may cause that other loss in  
his property, otherwise each shall be bound to make good the loss he has caused to the 
other.  
  
Article (287 ) 
If a person proves that the loss arose out of an extraneous cause in which he played no part 
such as a natural disaster, unavoidable accident, fo rce majeure, act of a third party, or act of 
the person suffering loss, he shall not be bound to make it good in the absence of a legal 
provision or agreement to the contrary.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  62 
 Article (288 ) 
Any person who causes damage in the c ourse of lawful defence of himself, his honour, or his 
property, or the defence of the person, honour or property of another, shall not be 
responsible for such damage provided that he has done no more than was necessary, otherwise he shall be bound to make good the excess.  
  
Article (289 ) 
(1) The act shall be regarded as being that of the actor and not of the person who ordered him to do it unless the actor is so compelled, provided that for there to be compulsion in respect of a physical act it must amount to forcible duress and no less.  
(2)  Nevertheless a public servant shall not be liable for his acts causing harm to others if he 
performed them in execution of an order given to him by his superior, and he is obliged to obey such order, or believed that h e had to do so, and if he provides evidence of his belief in 
the lawfulness of the act which he does, such belief being based on reasonable grounds, and provided that he acts with prudence and caution.  
  
Article (290 ) 
It shall be permissible for the judge to reduce the level by which an act has to be made good or to order that it need not be made good if the person suffering harm participated by his 
own act in bringing about or aggravating the damage.  
  
Article (291 ) 
If a number of persons are responsible f or a harmful act, each of them shall be liable in 
proportion to his share in it, and the judge may make an order against them in equal shares 
or by way of joint or several liability.  
  
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  63 
 Article (292 ) 
In all cases the compensation shall be assessed on the  basis of the amount of harm suffered 
by the victim, together with loss of profit, provided that that is a natural result of the harmful 
act. 
  
Article (293 ) 
(1) The right to have damage made good shall  include moral damage, and an infringement 
of the liberty, dignity, honour, reputation, social standing or financial condition of another shall be regarded as being moral damage.  
(2)  It shall be permissible for an order to be made by way of compensation f or moral 
damage caused to a spouse, or relatives of the family, by reason of the death of the victim.  
(3)  The right to receive compensation for moral damage may not be transferred to a third 
party unless the amount of it has been fixed by agreement or by a final judicial order.    
  
Article (294 ) 
The compensation may be made payable by instalments or by of a regular income, and in those events the obligor may be ordered to provide a guarantee assessed by the judge, or 
acceptable security.  
  
Article (295) 
The compensation shall be assessed in money, but provided that the judge may, according 
to the circumstances and upon the application of the victim, order that the plaintiff be 
restored to his former position, and he may also order that a specific act connected with the harmful act be performed by way of making good.  
  
Article (296 ) 
Any condition purporting to provide exemption from liability for a harmful act shall be void.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  64 
 Article (297 ) 
Civil liability shall be without prejudice to criminal liability provided that the elements of 
criminal liability are present, and no criminal penalty shall limit the scope of the civil liability 
or the assessment of the compensation.  
  
Article (298 ) 
(1) No claim for compensation arising out of a harmful act shall be hear d after the expiration 
of three years from the day on which the victim became aware of the occurrence of the harm and of the identity of the person responsible for it.  
(2)  Provided that if such claim arises out of a crime and the criminal proceedings are still 
current after the expiry of the time limit referred to in the foregoing paragraph, the claim for 
compensation shall not be barred.  
(3)  No claim for compensation shall be heard in any case upon the expiration of fifteen 
years from the day on which th e harmful act took place.  
  
Part  2: Liability for personal acts  
1- Harm done to the person 
Article (299 ) 
Compensation shall be payable for any harm caused to a person.  Provided that in cases in 
which the diya (blood money) or arsh (shari'a damages for pe rsonal injury not resulting in 
death) are payable, they shall not be payable in addition to such compensation unless the 
parties agree to the contrary.  
  
2- Damage to property  
Article (300 ) 
Whoever destroys or damages property of another shall be obliged to make it good in kind if it can be so made good, and to pay the value thereof otherwise, subject to the general 
provisions relating to indemnification.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  65 
   
Article (301 ) 
If the damage is partial, the person causing it shall be bound to make good the decrea se in 
value, and if the decrease in value is serious (gross) the owner of the property may elect 
between taking the equivalent of the decrease in value, or abandoning the damaged 
property and taking the (full) value thereof, subject to the general provisions relating to 
indemnification.  
  
Article (302 ) 
(1) If a person damages the property of another in the belief that if it is his own, he shall be bound to make good the loss.  
(2)  If a person damages the property of another with the permission of the owner thereof, 
he shall not be bound to make good the loss.  
  
Article (303 ) 
If a minor, whether of discretion or not, or any person of similar status, damages the property of another, he shall be bound to make it good out of his own property.  
  
3- Expropriation  and trespass to goods  
Article (304 ) 
(1) The hand shall be bound to restore that which it has taken, and shall remain bound until it does so.  
(2) Whoever misappropriates property belonging to another must restore it to that other in 
the condition it was in  when, and at the same place where, the misappropriation took place.  
(3)  If (the tortfeasor) has consumed or damaged the goods or if they have diminished or 
been damaged either with or without a wrongful act on his part, he must make good in kind or in va lue as at the day and place of misappropriation.  
(4)  He must also hand over any benefits or increase he has obtained from such property. 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  66 
 Article (305 ) 
If a person damages misappropriated goods in the hands of the misappropriator, the person 
from whom th e goods have been misappropriated shall have an election whether to make 
the misappropriator liable, and the latter may have recourse against the person who caused 
the damage, or he may, if he wishes, impose the liability on the person causing the damage, 
in which case the person causing the damage will not have any recourse against the 
misappropriator.  
  
Article (306 ) 
If the misappropriator disposes of the goods misappropriated by way of commutative 
contract or by way of gift and the goods misappropriated are lost in whole or in part in the 
hands of the person to whom the misappropriator made the disposition, the person from 
whom the goods have been misappropriated may elect to make either of them liable, and if 
he elects to make the misappropriator liable his disposition shall be valid, and if he elects to 
make the person to whom the misappropriator has made the disposition liable, such person 
shall have a right of recourse against the misappropriator in accordance with the provisions 
of the law.  
  
Article (307 ) 
(1) A person who misappropriates goods from a misappropriator shall himself be regarded 
as a misappropriator.  
(2)  If the misappropriator from a misappropriator returns the goods misappropriated to the 
first misappropriator, he alone shall be dischar ged of liability, and if he returns the goods to 
the person from whom they were misappropriated both he and the original misappropriator 
shall be discharged.  
(3)  If the goods become damaged in the hands of a mis ­appropriator from a 
misappropriator, the pe rson from whom they have been misappropriated shall have an 
election whether to make the first misappropriator or the second misappropriator liable.  
He may also make the first liable for part and the second liable for part, and if he makes the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  67 
 first misapp ropriator liable, such person shall have a right of recourse against the second 
misappropriator, and if he makes the second misappropriator liable, the last mentioned 
person shall have no right of recourse against the first.  
  
Article (308 ) 
The judge may i n all cases order the misappropriator to pay such compensation as he thinks 
appropriate if in his opinion that course is justified. 
  
Article (309 ) 
If a person has goods in his possession by way of trust and he is guilty of a default in preserving them, or  is guilty of a wrong -doing in respect of them or refuses to return them to 
the owner without right, or if he wrongfully asserts that they are his own, or if he dies and it 
is not known where the goods are, he shall be liable to return similar goods or the value 
thereof as the case may be.  
  
Article (310 ) 
Whoever steals goods or seizes them by violence or takes goods must return them to their 
owner if they are still in existence, or must return similar goods or the value thereof if the 
goods are no longer a vailable, notwithstanding that a criminal penalty may have been 
imposed upon him.  
  
Article (311 ) 
(1) If goods misappropriated change of their own, then the person from whom they have been misappropriated may elect between the recovery of those same goods,  or a 
replacement thereof.  
(2)  If goods misappropriated change in such a way that they become of a different 
description, (the misappropriator) shall be liable to make a replacement.  
(3)  If goods misappropriated change by reason of a misappropriator havi ng added 
something of his own to them, the person from whom they have been misappropriated may  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  68 
 elect between paying the value of the increase and recovering the goods misappropriated in 
specie, or making the misappropriator liable to provide a replacement.  
(4)  If the goods misappropriated suffer a decrease in value as a result of the use made by the 
misappropriator, the misappropriator must return those same goods and shall be liable for 
the shortfall in value. 
  
Article (312)  
Any act of the same nature as misapprop­ riation shall be treated as misappropriation.  
  
Part  3: Liability for the acts of others  
Article (313 ) 
(1) No person shall be liable for the act of another person, but nevertheless the judge may, 
upon the application of an injured party and in the event that in his opinion there is 
justification for taking that course, render any of the following persons liable as the case may 
be to satisfy any amount awarded against a person who has caused the harm:  
(a)  any person who by law or by agreement is obliged to supervise a person who requires 
supervision by virtue of his being an infant or by reason of his mental or physical condition, unless it is proved that he carried out his duty of supervision or that the damage would 
necessarily have occurred even if that duty had been carried out with the proper care; or  
(b)  any person who has actual control, by way of supervision and direction, over a person 
who has caused the damage, notwithstanding that he may not have had a free choice, if the 
act causing ha rm was committed by a person subordinate to him in or by reason of the 
execution of his duty.  
(2)  Any person obliged to make good may have a recourse against the person against whom 
the original award was made.  
  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  69 
 Part  4: Liability for animals and objec ts, and use of public roads  
1- Damage done by animals  
Article (314 ) 
Acts done by animals shall be regarded as inevitable, but that which they do shall be made 
good by the person having control of the animals, whether he is the owner or not, if he has 
been in default or guilty of a wrongdoing.  
  
2- Collapse of buildings  
Article (315 ) 
(1) Harm done to a third party by reason of the collapse of a building whether in whole or in 
part shall be made good by the owner of the building or the person having control over it 
unless it is proved that he was not guilty of any wrongdoing or default.  
(2)  Any person who is threatened with harm which may befall him from a building may 
require the owner to take the necessary measures to avert the risk, and if the owner does n ot 
take such measures, the judge may permit him to take those measures at the expense of the 
owner.  
  
3- Things and equipment  
Article (316 ) 
Any person who has things under his control which require special care in order to prevent 
their causing damage, or mechanical equipment, shall be liable for any harm done by such 
things or equipment, save to the extent that damage could not have been averted.  The 
above is without prejudice to any special provisions laid down in this regard.  
 
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  70 
 4- Use of public roa ds 
Article (317 ) 
The use of a public right is restricted (so far as is necessary to ensure) the safety of others, 
and any person who uses his public right and causes harm to another person which could 
have been avoided, shall be liable for the same.  
  
Chap ter Four:  Acts conferring a benefit 
Part  1: Unjust enrichment  
Article (318 ) 
No person may take the property of another without lawful cause, and if he takes it he must 
return it.  
  
Article (319 ) 
(1) Any person who acquires the property of another person without any disposition 
entitling him so to do must return it if that property still exists, or similar property or the 
value thereof if it no longer exists, unless the law otherwise provides. (2) If the property of any person leaves his possession without his so intending and by 
unavoidable process merges with the property of another person in such a way that it 
cannot be separated therefrom without causing harm to one of the owners, the property of 
the lesser value shall be regarded as part of the property  of the greater value after paying the 
value thereof, and if (the two parts) are of equal value then the property shall be sold and 
the proceeds distributed, unless there is an agreement or a provision of law to the contrary.  
 
Part 2:  Unjustified expropria tion  
Article (320 ) 
Whoever hands over a thing believing that he has a duty so to do, and it then becomes 
apparent that he had no such duty, may recover it from the person who took it if it still 
exists, or similar property or the value thereof if it does n ot still exist.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  71 
 Article (321 ) 
A recovery of property handed over without entitlement may be made if payment was made 
in satisfaction of a debt for which the cause had not materialised, or for a debt of which the 
cause has ceased to exist after it had mater ialised.  
  
Article (322 ) 
It shall be proper to recover money paid in satisfaction of a debt which has not matured, and 
in respect of which the payer was ignorant of the due date for payment.  
  
Article (323 ) 
If payment is obtained from a person other than t he obligor and the result of that is that the 
obligee acting in good faith has been deprived of an instrument proving the debt or any 
security attaching thereto or if he has foreborne to make a claim against the true obligor within the time limit laid down , he does not have to return what he has taken, but the 
person who has paid may have a recourse against the true obligor for the obligation and render him a guarantor thereof if appropriate.  
  
Article (324 ) 
Whoever takes a thing without a claim of right mu st return it to its owner together with any 
profits or yield it has produced, and the judge may compensate the owner of the right for 
any shortfall in the return of the yield on the part of the person who had taken the goods.  
  
Part  3: Voluntary agency 
Article (325 ) 
Whoever performs an act beneficial to a third party otherwise than upon the latter's instructions, but by leave of a judge, or under compelling necessity, or by the dictate of 
custom, shall be deemed to be acting on his behalf, and the following  provisions shall apply 
to such person.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  72 
 Article (326 ) 
The rules of agency shall apply if the principal ratifies the act of the voluntary agent.  
  
Article (327 ) 
A voluntary agent must continue the work which he has commenced until the principal is 
able to undertake it himself, and he must also inform the principal of his intervention as 
soon as he is able.  
  
Article (328 ) 
A voluntary agent is liable for any losses sustained by the principal, and the judge may limit 
(also: determine) the extent of the liabi lity if the circumstances justify that course.  
  
Article (329 ) 
If a voluntary agent delegates the whole or part of the work to another person, he shall be 
liable for the acts of his deputy, without prejudice to any direct recourse which the principal may h ave against such deputy.  
  
Article (330 ) 
A voluntary agent shall have the same obligations as a (duly constituted) agent in restoring that which he has obtained by reason of the voluntary agency, and in giving an account of 
what he has done.  
  
Article (331)  
The principal must perform the obligations entered into by the voluntary agent on his 
account, and must indemnify him against the obligations which he has undertaken, 
reimburse necessary and useful expenses justified by the circumstances, and compensate 
him for any loss sustained by reason of his carrying out the work, and the voluntary agent 
shall not be entitled to a fee for his work unless such work is performed in the course of his 
profession.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  73 
 Article (332)  
(1) If a voluntary agent dies, his heirs shall be under the same obligations as the heirs of a 
(duly constituted) agent upon the termination of the agency by the death of such agent.  
(2) If the principal dies, the voluntary agent shall remain under the same duties towards his 
heirs as he was towards the principal.  
  
Part 4: Discharging the debt of another  
Article (333 ) 
If a person discharges the obligations of a third party upon his directions, he shall have a right of recourse against the person so directing him for what he has performed on his 
beha lf, and he shall take the place of the original obligee in his right to claim against the 
obligor, whether or not such right of recourse was (expressly) agreed.  
  
Article (334 ) 
If a person discharges the obligations of a third party otherwise than upon his  directions, he 
shall not have a right of recourse against the obligor for moneys he has paid save in the 
circumstances provided for in Article 325, and there shall be no recourse against the obligee 
unless he has discharged the obligor of the obligation, even after obtaining satisfaction of the obligation from the person performing it.  
  
Article (335 ) 
If a pledgor discharges the debt of a third party in order to release his property pledged by way of security for such debt, he shall have a right of recours e against the debtor for the 
money he has paid.  
  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  74 
 Part  5: Mutual  provisions  
Article (336 ) 
No claims arising out of a beneficial act shall be heard after the expiration of three years 
from the day on which the obligee became aware of his right of recours e, and in no case 
shall claims be heard after the expiration of fifteen years from the day on which the right of 
recourse arose.  
  
Chapter  Five:  The Law  
Article (337 ) 
Rights arising directly and exclusively out of the law shall be governed by the legal 
provisions out of which they arose.  
  
Section 2:  The effects of a right 
Chapter One:  General provisions  
Article (338 ) 
A right must be satisfied when the legal conditions rendering it due for performance exist, 
and if an obligor fails to perform an obligation,  he shall be compelled to do so either by way 
of specific performance or by way of compensation in accordance with the provisions of the law.  
  
Article (339 ) 
(1) Performance shall be voluntary if it takes place by satisfaction or the equivalent.  
(2) Performance shall be compulsory if it takes place by (an order for) specific performance or by way of compensation.  
  
Article (340 ) 
If a right loses the protection of the law for any reason, there shall be no compulsory performance, and the obligation shall become a non -enforceable obligation of the obligor.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  75 
 Article (341 ) 
If an obligor discharges a non -enforceable obligation, such discharge shall be valid, and shall 
not be deemed to be a discharge of what he was not obliged to perform.  
  
Chapter  Two:  Means of enforcement  
Part  1: Voluntary execution  
1- Satisfaction  
a- The parties to the satisfaction  
Article (342 ) 
(1) Discharge shall be good if performed by the obligor or his representative or by any other 
person having an interest in the discharge.  
(2) Discharge  shall also be good if performed by a person not having an interest in the 
discharge upon the directions of the obligor or otherwise and provided that the obligee shall 
have the right to refuse the discharge by a third party if the obligor objects thereto and 
notifies the obligee of his objection.  
  
Article (343 ) 
In order for there to be a valid discharge of an obligation, the person performing it must be 
the owner of that by which the performance is effected, and if the obligor is a minor of the 
age of dis cretion, or is of the age of majority but an imbecile or subject to a restriction on the 
grounds of idiocy or feeble- mindedness and he discharges the obligation by which he is 
bound, such discharge shall be good, unless it causes damage to the person makin g the 
discharge.  
  
 
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  76 
 Article (344 ) 
Discharge made to certain obligees shall be of no effect against other obligees if the obligor 
is under a restriction with regard to that obligation, or if the discharge is made out of 
restricted property, or if the obligor is terminally ill and the discha rge would prejudice the 
remaining obligees.  
  
b- The person to whom satisfaction is made  
Article (345 ) 
Discharge may be performed to the obligee or his representative, and any person who gives 
a receipt issued by the obligee shall be regarded as a proper r ecipient of the discharge unless 
it is agreed that the discharge shall be performed towards the obligee in person.  
 
Article (346 ) 
If an obligee is not a person of full capacity, an obligor shall not be released save by 
dischar ging the obligation towards his guardian, and if discharge is effected to the obligee 
and that whereby discharge was made is destroyed or lost in his hands, the guardian may make a claim against the obligor for satisfaction.  
  
c- Rejection of discharge  
Article (347 ) 
If an obligee rejects without justification a discharge validly offered to him in circumstances 
when he should accept it, or if he refuses to perform an act without which the discharge may 
not be effected, or if he states that he will not acc ept the discharge, the obligor shall give him 
notice specifying a reasonable period to perform what he is obliged to do to obtain 
satisfaction of his right.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  77 
 Article (348 ) 
The result of the giving of such notice by the obligor shall be that the thing which was the 
subject matter of the obligation shall come under the responsibility of the obligee if it had 
previously been under the responsibility of the obligor, and the obli gor shall have the right 
to put it into safe keeping at the expense of the obligee, under the responsibility of the latter 
for any harm that may be sustained by it. 
  
Article (349 ) 
If the subject matter of the discharge is a specific thing, and the obligat ion is to deliver it at 
the place in which it is, the obligor may, after giving notice to the obligee to take delivery of 
it, obtain the leave of the judge to put it into safe keeping, and if such thing is real property 
or deemed to be so by affixation in the place where it is, the obligor may apply that it be 
placed under guard.  
  
Article (350 ) 
If the subject matter of the discharge is a perishable thing or if it requires the incurring of 
substantial expense to keep it safe or under guard, the obligor may,  after obtaining the leave 
of the judge, or without such leave in compelling circumstances, sell it at its customary 
market value, or, if that is impossible, by public auction, and shall lodge the proceeds in 
place of putting the thing itself in safe keepi ng. 
 
  
Article (351 ) 
The placing in safe keeping or the act performed in its stead shall also be permissible if the 
obligor is unaware of the identity or place of residence of the obligee or if the obligor is 
under a restriction and does not have a representative who can accept discharge on his behalf, or if the obligation is the subject of a dispute among several persons, or  if there are 
other serious reasons justifying that course.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  78 
 Article (352 ) 
A valid offer shall, with regard to the obligor, take the place of discharge if it is followed by a 
deposit satisfying the legal requirements, or by any similar procedure, if accepted by the 
obligee or if a final judgment is made to the effect that it is valid.  
  
Article (353 ) 
(1) If the obligor tenders discharge and the tender is followed by a deposit or similar procedure, he may resile from that tender so long as the obligee has n ot accepted it and 
there has been no final judgment as to its validity, and if he does so resile, neither his 
co-obligors nor his guarantors shall be discharged.  
(2) If an obligor resiles from the tender after the obligee has accepted it or after a judgmen t 
as to its validity, and the obligee accepts such resilement from him, the obligee may not 
thereafter rely on any securities for the performance of the obligation, and the co- obligees 
and the guarantors shall be discharged.  
  
d- The subject matter, time and place of the satisfaction, expenses thereof, 
and proof  
Article (354 ) 
(1) If the obligation is one which must be specifically performed, the obligor may not effect substituted performance of it without the consent of the obligee, notwithstanding that such substituted performance is of a value equivalent to or greater than the thing due.  
(2) If, however, the obligation is not one to be specifically performed, the obligor may discharge it by similar performance, even without the c onsent of the obligee.  
  
Article (355 ) 
(1) The obligor may not compel the obligee to accept partial performance of the obligation unless there is an agreement or a provision of law permitting that.  
(2) If, there is a dispute as to part of the obligation and the obligee agrees to accept performance of the agreed part, the obligor may not refuse performance of such part.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  79 
 Article (356 ) 
If the obligee is bound to discharge any expenses together with the obligation, and his 
performance does not cover the obligat ion as well as those expenses, what he has 
performed shall be deducted firstly from those expenses and then from the principal 
obligation, unless a contrary agreement is made.  
  
Article (357 ) 
If an obligor is bound by several obligations  of the same kind towards the same obligee, and 
the performance made by the obligor does not satisfy all of those obligations, the obligee 
may, upon performance, specify the particular obligation which he wishes to be (regarded 
as) performed, unless there is any legal or contractual bar preventing such a course.  
  
Article (358 ) 
If the obligation is not specified as set out in the foregoing Article, the performance shall be attributed to such obligation as has matured, and if there are several such obligations, then 
the attribution shall be to the most burdensome of the obligations upon the obligee, and if 
the obligations are of equal burden, the attribution shall be to such obligation as the obligee 
shall specify. 
  
Article (359 ) 
(1) An obligation must be di scharged as soon as it becomes final and binding as against the 
obligor, in the absence of an agreement or provision of law to the contrary.  
(2) Provided that a judge may, in exceptional circumstances and if not prevented by any 
provision in the law, grant  a reasonable period or periods to the obligor for the performance 
of his obligations if his circumstances so warrant, and provided that such granting of time 
does not cause serious loss to the obligee.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  80 
 Article (360 ) 
(1) If an obligation is deferred, the obligor may discharge it prior to its falling due if the 
deferment is to his advantage, and the obligee must accept.  
(2) If an obligor discharges an obligation before it falls due, and a third party right arises over 
that whereby discharge is performed, the obligation shall again become deferred as before.  
  
Article (361 ) 
(1) If the subject matter of the obligation is one for specific performance, it must be delivered at the place where it is at the time the obligation arose, unless there is an agreemen t or 
provisions of law to the contrary.  
(2) In the case of other obligations performance shall be at the place where the obligor has 
his residence at the time of discharge or at the place where he carries on business, if the 
obligation relates to his busin ess. 
  
Article (362 ) 
If the obligor sends that wherewith discharge is to be made with his messenger to the obligee and the thing is lost in the hands of the messenger before he arrives, the loss shall 
fall on the obligor.  If the obligee directs the obligor to discharge the obligations to the 
messenger of the obligee and he does so, thereafter the loss shall fall upon the obligee and 
the obligor shall be discharged from his obligation.  
  
Article (363 ) 
The costs of discharge shall be borne by the obligee unl ess there is an agreement or a 
provision of law to the contrary.  
  
Article (364 ) 
(1) Any person discharging part of an obligation may require a receipt as to that which has 
been performed, with an endorsement on the document relating to the obligation that  such 
discharge has been received, and if the obligation is discharged in full he may require that  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  81 
 such document be returned to him or cancelled.  If the document has been lost, he may 
require the obligee to make a written acknowledgment of the loss of the document.  
(2) If the obligee refuses to comply with his obligations under the foregoing paragraph, the 
obligor may deposit the thing due with the court.  
  
2- Quasi -satisfaction  
a-Substituted satisfaction  
Article (365 ) 
An obligee may, in satisfaction of  his right, accept another thing or another act performed by 
the obligor, and the agreement to the substitution shall be subject to the general provisions governing contracts as laid down in this Law.  
  
Article (366 ) 
(1) Substituted performance governed by  the provisions relating to sale if that which is given 
in performance is a specific thing in place of discharge of the (original) obligation.  
(2) The provisions governing performance in the termination of an obligation shall apply 
thereto.  
  
Article (367 ) 
The original obligation, together with any securities pertaining thereto, shall be extinguished 
by the substituted performance, and the rights of the obligee shall be transferred to the substitute.  
 
b- Set-off 
Article (368 ) 
Set-off is the satisfaction of an obligation of the obligee by an obligation to be performed by 
the obligor.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  82 
 Article (369 ) 
Set-off may either be mandatory, occurring by operation of law, or voluntary, occurring by 
agreement between the parties, or judicial, occurring by order of the court.  
  
Article (370 ) 
In the case of mandatory set- off, each of the parties must be both the obligor and the obligee 
of the other, and the obligations must be of the same type and description, must be equally 
due and of equal strength or weakness, and the making of the set -off must not be prejudicial 
to the rights of third parties, whether the cause of the arising of the obligations is the same or 
different.  
  
Article (371 ) 
A set -off may be made by agreement if any of the conditions for a mandatory set -off is not 
satisfied.  
  
Article (372 ) 
A judicial set -off takes place by order of a judge if the conditions thereof are satisfied, either 
upon an original application or upon an objection.  
  
Article (373 ) 
If a bailee is under an obligation to his bailor, or i f a person who has misappropriated goods 
is owed an obligation by the person from whom the goods have been misappropriated, and 
the obligation is of the same nature as the goods deposited or misappropriated, there shall be no set -off save by the agreement of the parties.  
  
Article (374 ) 
If an obligee loses property of the obligor, of the same kind as the subject matter of the 
obligation, such property shall fall into the set -off, and if it is not of the same kind, it shall not 
fall into the set- off save with the agreement of the parties.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  83 
 Article (375 ) 
A set -off may be made upon the request of a person having an interest therein, and the 
set-off shall be effective to the amount of the lesser of the two obligations.  
  
Article (376 ) 
If the obligation is one for  which a claim has become time- barred by the time the set -off is 
claimed, that fact shall not operate to prevent a set -off provided that the period causing the 
claim to be time barred had not already expired by the time the set -off first became possible.  
  
Article (377 ) 
If an obligor discharges an obligation of his and has a right to claim a set- off for a right due to 
him, he may not rely on the guarantees of that right to the detriment of third parties unless 
he was unaware of the existence (or a right of set-off), and has a reasonable excuse for such 
ignorance.  
  
c- The merger of capacities  
Article (378 ) 
(1) If the same person acquired the status of both obligor and obligee with regard to a single 
obligation, the obligation shall become extinguished to the extent to which the two statuses 
have merged.  
(2) Obligations shall not merge if the obligor is the heir of the obligee and he joins with the other obligors in obtaining satisfaction of the obligation out of the estate.  
  
Article (379 ) 
If the cause of the merging of the two statuses ceases retrospectively, the obligation shall revert to its former position.  
  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  84 
 Part  2: Compulsory enforcement  
1- Specific Performance  
Article (380 ) 
(1) An obligor shall, after being given notice, be compelled to discharge hi s obligation by 
way of specific performance, if that is possible.  
(2) Provided that if specific performance would be oppressive for the obligor, the judge may, 
upon the application of the obligor, restrict the right of the obligee to a monetary substitute 
unless that would cause him serious loss. 
  
Article (381 ) 
(1) If the subject matter of the right is an act which, by its nature or by virtue of a contractual 
provision, the obligor must perform personally, the obligee may reject performance thereof 
by anot her person.  
(2) If the obligor does not perform the act, the obligee may seek the leave of the judge to perform it (himself), and he may also perform it (himself) without leave under compelling 
necessity, and in both cases the performance shall be at the expense of the obligor (debtor).  
  
Article (382) 
The judgment of the court shall take the place of performance if the subject matter of the right is an act, and the nature of the case so allows.  
  
Article (383 ) 
(1) If that which is required of an obligor is  the preservation of a thing, or the management 
thereof, or the exercise of care in the performance of his obligation, he shall have discharged 
that obligation if, in the performance thereof, he exercises all such care as the reasonable 
man would exercise,  notwithstanding that the intended object is not achieved, unless there 
is an agreement or a provision of law to the contrary.  
(2) In all cases, the obligor shall remain liable for any fraud or gross negligence on his part.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  85 
 Article (384 ) 
If the subject matter of the right is the refraining from an act, and the obligor is in breach of 
that obligation, the obligee may require that the effects of such breach be removed, or apply 
to a judge for leave to remove such effects at the expense of the obligor.  
  
Article (385 ) 
If specific performance has taken place, or if the obligor persists in refusing performance, the judge shall determine the amount of compensation to be paid by the obligor, having regard therein to the prejudice suffered by the obligee, and the unreasonableness of the attitude of 
the obligor.  
 
2- Performance by way of compensation  
Article (386 ) 
If it is impossible for an obligor to give specific performance of an obligation, he shall be 
ordered to pay compensation for non -performance of his oblig ation, unless it is proved that 
the impossibility of performance arose out of an external cause in which (the obligor) played no part.  The same shall apply in the event that the obligor defaults in the performance of his 
obligation.  
  
Article (387 ) 
Compen sation shall not be due until after the obligor has been put on notice, unless there is 
a contrary provision in the law or in the contract.  
  
Article (388 ) 
It shall not be obligatory to give notice to the obligor in the following circumstances: ‑ 
(a) if the  performance of the obligation becomes impossible or useless through the act of the 
obligor;  
(b) if the subject matter of the obligation is compensation arising out of an unlawful act;  
(c) if the subject matter of the obligation is the return of a thing wh ich the obligor knows is  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  86 
 stolen, or a thing received by him without claim of right and the obligor is aware of that; or  
(d) if the obligor states in writing that he does not wish to perform his obligation.  
  
Article (389 ) 
If the amount of compensation is n ot fixed by law or by the contract, the judge shall assess it 
in an amount equivalent to the damage in fact suffered at the time of the occurrence thereof.  
  
Article (390 ) 
(1) The contracting parties may fix the amount of compensation in advance by making  a 
provision therefor in the contract or in a subsequent agreement, subject to the provisions of 
the law.  
(2) The judge may in all cases, upon the application of either of the parties, vary such 
agreement so as to make the compensation equal to the loss, a nd any agreement to the 
contrary shall be void.  
  
Part  3: Lawful means to safeguard performance  
1- Security of the assets of the debtor for performance  
Article (391 ) 
(1) All of the property of the obligor stands as security for the performance of his obli gations.  
(2) All creditors stand pari passu in respect of such security, without prejudice to any 
provisions of the law to the contrary.  
  
2- Indirect claims  
Article (392 ) 
(1) Every obligee, notwithstanding that his right may not be due for discharge, may exercise, 
in the name of his obligor, all of the rights of that obligor, save those that relate particularly to his person or which are not capable of being attached.  
(2) The exercise by the obligee of the rights of his obligor shall not be permitted un less it is 
established that the obligor has not exercised those rights and that his failure so to do is such  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  87 
 as may lead to or aggravate his bankruptcy, and the obligor must be brought into the claim.  
  
Article (393 ) 
The obligee shall be regarded as acting on behalf of his obligor in exercising his rights, and 
any benefit arising out of the exercise of those rights shall be brought into the obligor's 
property and shall stand as security for all his creditors.  
  
3- Sha m arrangements  
Article (394 ) 
(1) If a sham contract is made, the obligees of the contracting parties, and special successors, may, if they are acting in good faith, rely on the sham contract and also rely on the hidden 
contract, and prove by all means the sham nature of the contract by which they are 
prejudiced.  
(2) If there is a conflict of interest between the parties concerned and some of them rely on 
the apparent contract and others on the hidden contract, the former shall take precedence.  
  
Article (395) 
If the contracting parties conceal a true contract with an apparent contract, the true contract 
will be the effective one as between the contracting parties and a special successor.  
 
4- Claims against a debtor not to make dispositions detrimental to the 
creditor  
Article (396 ) 
If obligations, whether due or deferred, exceed or are equal to the assets of the obligor, then he may not make any gift he is not bound to make or which custom does not dictate that he must, and an obligee may ask for an order declaring that such disposition is ineffective as 
against him.  
Article (397 ) 
If obligees are making a claim against an obligor whose assets do not exceed the obligations  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  88 
 due to them, he may not make any gifts of his property or dispose of it by way of 
commu tative contract notwithstanding the absence of preference, and the obligees may 
seek an order declaring that the disposition is ineffective as against them, and may also seek 
an order for the sale of his property and that they do share in the proceeds ther eof in 
accordance with the provisions of the law.  
  
Article (398 ) 
If an obligee alleges that the property of the obligor does not exceed the amou nt of the debt, 
he need only prove the amount of the obligations to him, and the obligor himself must prove that he has assets exceeding the amount of the obligations.  
  
Article (399 ) 
If an order is made declaring that the disposition is ineffective, the obligees prejudiced by such disposition shall have the benefit of that order.  
  
Article (400 ) 
(1) No claim for a declaration that a disposition is ineffective shall be heard after the expiration of three years from the day on which the obligee learned of th e cause rendering 
the disposition ineffective.  
(2) In no circumstances shall such claims be heard after the expiration of fifteen years from the time the disposition was made.  
  
5- Restrictions on bankrupt obligors 
Article (401 ) 
A restriction may be placed on a obligor if his obligations due exceed his assets.  
 
  
Article (402 ) 
(1) The restriction shall be by way of an order made by a judge within whose jurisdiction the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  89 
 residence of the obligor is situated upon an appli cation made by the obligor or any of the 
obligees, and the application shall be heard promptly.  
(2) Any obligee may, under the restriction order, obtain an order from the competent judge 
attaching all of the property  of the obligor save such as may not be attached.  The 
attachment shall remain in effect over the property of the obligor for the benefit of the 
obligees until the restriction is terminated.  
  
Article (403 ) 
The judge must in each case before imposing a res triction on the obligor have regard in 
exercising his discretion to all of the circumstances surrounding the obligor, the extent to 
which he was responsible for the circumstances which led to the restriction order being 
ought, the lawful interests of his o bligors, and any other circumstances which may affect his 
financial condition.  
  
Article (404 ) 
(1) The Clerk of the Court must, on the day on which the application for a restriction is 
lodged, register the contents of the claim in a special register arrang ed in order of the names 
of the obligors over whom a restriction is applied for, and he must make a note in the margin 
of the said register of the order made in the claim, and of any order made confirming or 
reversing it, on the same day that any such orde r is made.  
(2) The Court Clerk must also send to the office of the Ministry of Justice a copy of these registrations and endorsements for registration on the general register to be kept in 
accordance with a regulation to be issued by the Minister.  
  
Article (405 ) 
If an obligor changes his address he must give notice thereof to the clerk of the court within 
the area of which his old address was and the clerk must, as soon as he learns of the change 
of address, either through notification from the obligor or from any other source, send a 
copy of the restriction order and of the particulars noted in the margin of the register to the 
court within whose jurisdiction the new address is, for registration in its records.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  90 
   
Article (406) 
A restriction order shall have the following consequences: ‑ 
(1) any deferred obligations due by the obligor shall become due for performance;  
(2) any disposition by him over his existing and future property shall be ineffective as 
against his obligees as a whole; and  
(3) any acknowledgment of an obligation made by him to another person shall be 
ineffective as from the time the order is registered.  
  
Article (407) 
If a restriction is imposed on an obligor, the president of the court having jurisdiction in the 
restriction may make an order in favour of the obligor on a petition lodged by him for expenses to be paid to him out of his assets, and an objection may be made against such 
order made on the petition within thr ee days from the date of issue thereof if the objection is 
on the part of the obligor, or from the date that the creditors are notified of the order, if the 
objection is from them.  
  
Article (408) 
The property of an obligor under a restriction shall be sold and divided among the creditors 
by way of pro rata sharing in accordance with the procedures laid down by law, and he shall 
be left such money as he needs to maintain himself and other persons whom he has an obligation to maintain.  
  
Article (409) 
An obligor shall be liable to be punished for fraud in the following circumstances: ‑ 
(1) if a claim for an obligation is brought against him and he deliberately becomes bankrupt in order to cause loss to his obligees, and an order is made in the case against him for the 
performance of the obligation and for the making of a restriction against him;  
(2) if, after the judgment against him imposing a restriction, he conceals some of his property in order to a void execution against it, or if he fabricates bogus debts or the amounts  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  91 
 thereof, with the intention of causing loss to his obligees; or  
(3) if he fraudulently changes his place of residence and his obligees suffer loss thereby.  
  
Article (410 ) 
(1) The re striction shall terminate by the order of the judge having jurisdiction in the place 
where the obligor has his residence upon the application of any interested party in the 
following circumstances: ‑ 
(a) if the property subject to a restriction is divided a mong, the creditors;  
(b) if it is established that the obligations of the obligor do not exceed his assets; or  
(c) if the obligor satisfies his obligations which have fallen due without the restriction having 
any effect upon the date of their falling due, and in that event the maturity date of the 
obligations which had fallen due by reason of the restriction shall again become as they 
were before, but provided that the obligor has discharged all the instalments that have fallen 
due.  
(2) The clerk of the cou rt shall of his own motion make an endorsement of the order 
terminating the restriction on the day it is made in the margin of the register provided for in Article 404, and he must send a copy thereof to the office of the Ministry of Justice for 
endorsemen t thereof also.  
  
Article (411 ) 
A restriction order shall terminate by operation of law after the expiration of five years from 
the date of the registration of the order in that behalf.  
  
Article (412 ) 
An obligor may, after the termination of the restri ction, require the return of debts which 
became due and payable by reason of the restriction and for which the original maturity 
date has not yet come, on condition that he has discharged his obligations which have fallen 
due without the restriction having  had any effect on their falling due.  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  92 
 Article (413 ) 
The termination of the restriction shall not prevent the obligees from challenging the 
dispositions of the obligor or from exercising their rights under Articles 392 and 394- 400.  
  
6- Rights of retention  
Article (414 ) 
Any person who is obliged to perform a thing may refrain from so doing so long as the obligor has not discharged an obligation of his arising by reason of an obligation of the 
obligee and connected with it.  
  
Article (415 ) 
Each of the contracting parties in a commutative contract generally involving property may retain the thing contracted for while it is in his possession until he receives the consideration 
due.  
  
Article (416 ) 
Any person who has incurred necessary or ben eficial expense on property of another in his 
possession may refuse to return such property until he recovers what is due to him at law, in 
the absence of an agreement or provision of law to the contrary.  
  
Article (417 ) 
(1) Any person who retains a thing must preserve it and must give an account for any yield 
derived therefrom.  
(2) He may seek the leave of the judge to sell the thing retained if he fears that it may suffer loss or deterioration, in accordance with the procedures laid down for sale of goods  held by 
way of possessory pledge, and the right of retention of a thing shall pass to the proceeds of 
sale thereof.  
    
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  93 
 Article (418 ) 
Any person who retains a thing in the exercise of his right of retention thereof has a prior 
right over other competing creditors for the satisfaction of his rights thereout.  
  
Article (419 ) 
(1) The right of retention shall be extinguished if the thing passes out of the hands of the person in possession or control, in the absence of any provision of law to the contrary.  
(2) Nevertheless it shall be permissible for a person who retains a thing which passes out of 
his possession either without his knowledge or despite his objection t o require within thirty 
days from the time he learns of its having so passed and prior to the expiration of one year of 
its having so passed that it be restored to him.  
  
Chapter  Three : Dispositions conditional by suspension or deferment  
Part  1: The condit ion (subsequent)  
Article (420) 
A Condition is a future matter upon the existence or absence of which the full effectiveness 
(of a disposition) depends.  
  
Article (421 ) 
A perfected disposition is one which has been absolutely concluded, is not subj ect to a 
Condition or deferred to a future time, and is of full effect immediately.  
  
Article (422 ) 
A conditional (lit: suspended) disposition is one which is dependent on a not yet existing Condition or on a future event, and whose effect is suspended until such Condition is 
satisfied.  
 
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  94 
 Article (423 ) 
In order for the suspension to be valid, the Condi tion must be an event which has not taken 
place, but which could take place and is not impossible.  
  
Article (424 ) 
A disposition shall be void if the existence thereof depends on an impossible Condition, or if 
it permits what is forbidden, or forbids that which is lawful, or is contrary to public order or 
morals.  
  
Article (425) 
A disposition dependent upon a Condition not incompatible with the contract shall be ineffective, unless the Condition materialises.  
  
Article (426 ) 
A disposition shall cease to be effective if the Condition to which it was subject materialises, and the obligee shall be bound to return what he has taken, and if it is impossible to make 
restitution through a cause attributable to him, he shall be bound to give an indemnity.  
  
Article (427 ) 
(A disposition) dependent upon a Condition shall be affirmed upon its being established that the Condition has materialised.  
  
Article (428 ) 
A Condition must be observed as far as is possible.  
  
Part 2: Deferment  
Article (429 ) 
It shall be permissible to defer a disposition to a future time, upon the coming of which the provisions (of the disposition) shall become effective or be extinguished.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  95 
 Article (430 ) 
If it appears from the disposition that the obligor is not to perform unl ess it is possible or 
convenient for him to do so, the judge shall determine the time for performance having 
regard to the present and future resources of the obligor, and shall require of himthat he exercise due diligence in the performance of his obligat ions.  
  
Article (431 ) 
The right of an obligor to defer shall lapse in the following circumstances: ‑ 
(1) if a bankruptcy or restriction order is made against him;  
(2) if he does not provide the agreed securities for performance; or  
(3) if the securities in rem for the obligation become defective by his act or through a cause in which he has played no part, unless he takes steps to supplement them.  
  
Article (432 ) 
If the deferment is for the benefit of either one of the parties, such party may waive it unilaterally.  
  
Article (433 ) 
A deferred obligation shall not mature upon the death of the obligor, but shall mature on the death of the obligee unless guaranteed by a security in rem.  
  
Chapter  Four: Multiplicity of objects of the contract 
Part  1: The grant of an option as to the thing to be performed  
Article (434 ) 
It shall be permissible for the subject matter of a disposition to be a number of things, with the obligation of the obligee being discharged if he performs any one of them.  The option 
shall be that of the obligee if it is absolute, unless there is an agreement or a provision of law to the contrary, and the rules relating to the option of specification shall apply to the subject matter of the disposition.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  96 
 Part  2: Substitution of the thin g to be performed  
Article (435 ) 
(1) A disposition is substitutive if the subject matter thereof is one thing, but the obligation 
of the obligee is discharged upon the performance of another thing in substitution thereof.  
(2) It is the original (subject matter) alone and not the substitute which is the subject matter of the obligation, and that which determines the nature thereof.  
  
Chapter Five:  Multiplicity of parties to a disposition  
Part  1: Joint obligees  
Article (436 ) 
Obligees shall not be regarded as being joint save by agreement or by law.  
  
Article (437 ) 
An obligor may discharge his obligation to any of the joint obligees unless any one of them gives him notice that discharge may not be made to him.  
  
Article (438 ) 
If the liability of an obligor is discharged towards one of the joint obligees for a reason other than performance, he shall not be released as against the other obligees save to the extent of 
the share of such obligee.  
  
Article (439 ) 
(1) Joint obligees ma y claim jointly or severally against the obligor for the performance of 
the obligation.  
(2) An obligor may not object to the obligation as towards any one joint obligee on grounds 
particular to another obligee, but he may object on grounds that are particu lar to that 
obligee and also on grounds common to all of the obligees.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  97 
 Article (440 ) 
Any part of an obligation discharged towards joint obligees shall be deemed to have been 
discharged as towards all of them equally , unless there is a provision of law or an agreement 
to the contrary.  
  
Part  2: Joint obligations  
Article (441 ) 
An obligation shall be joint if it has the same subject matter, is an obl igation due from a 
family by way of inheritance to a number of heirs, is joint consumed property, or is 
consideration for a loan raised from property owned in common.  
  
Article (442 ) 
All co -obligees in a joint obligation shall have the right to claim their share therein, and 
anything received by one of them shall be the joint property of the co- obligees, to each 
according to his proportion.  
  
Article (443 ) 
(1) If one co -obligee in a joint obligation receives part of the satisfaction of that obligation, 
the other co- obligee may share with him therein in proportion to his share of it.  They may 
pursue the obligor for the balance, or he may leave what the other has received, and pursue 
the obligor for his share.  
(2) If one co -obligee elects to pursue the obligor, he may not have recourse against his 
co-obligee unless his share has been lost, the foregoing applying in the proportion of his 
share in what (the co -obligee) has received.  
  
Article (444 ) 
(1) If one of the co- obligees receives his share of the discharg e of a joint obligation and then 
disposes of it or consumes it, the other co- obligees may have recourse against him for their 
shares therein.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  98 
 (2) If it is lost in his hands with no fault on his part, he shall not be liable for the shares of his 
co-obligees  therein, but he shall be regarded as having received his share, and the balance of 
the obligation against the obligor shall belong to the other co- obligees.  
  
Article (445 ) 
If one of the co- obligees in an obligation obtains a guarantor for his share in the joint 
obligation or if the obligor assigns the obligation to another, the co- obligees may share with 
him in their shares in the amount which he receives from the guarantor or the assignee.  
  
Article (446 ) 
If one of the co- obligees purchases property from the obligor for his share in the debt, the 
other co- obligees may require him to guarantee any loss in value suffered by their shares up 
to the value of the thing purchased, or they may have recourse against the obligor for their 
shares, and they may share  with him what he has purchased if they so agree.  
  
Article (447 ) 
Any of the co- obligees may give his share to the obligor or may discharge him therefrom, 
and he shall not be required to guarantee the shares of his co- obligees for what he has given 
or rele ased.  
  
Article (448 ) 
Any of the co -obligees in a joint obligation may make a compromise for his share, and if the 
consideration for the settlement is of the same kind as the obligation, the others may share with him the consideration received, or they may  pursue the obligor, and if the 
consideration for the settlement is not of the same kind as the obligation, they may pursue the obligor or the co- obligee who has made the compromise, and the latter may pay them 
his share in the consideration received, or t heir share in the obligation.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  99 
 Article (449 ) 
(1) None of the co -obligees in a joint obligation may defer it on his own without the consent 
of the remaining obligees to such deferment.  
(2) He may defer his share therein without the consent of the others,  and in that event he 
may not participate with them in such part of the debt as they receive.  
  
Part  3: Joint liability between obligors  
Article (450 ) 
There shall be no joint liability as between obligors save by agreement or by a provision in 
the law.  
  
Article (451 ) 
If one of the jointly liable obligors satisfies the obligation in full, the others shall be discharged.  
  
Article (452 ) 
(1) An obligee may claim against all or any of the jointly liable obligors, subject to the type of relationship he has with each obligor which may affect the obligation.  
(2) Any obligor may object upon a claim being against him on any grounds of objection particular to him, or common to all of the obligors alone.  
  
Article (453 ) 
If an obligee agrees with one of the jointly lia ble obligors to substituted discharge, the others 
shall be released unless he reserves his rights as against them all.   
Article (454 ) 
If the share of one of the jointly liable obligors in an obligation becomes extinguished for any reason other than satisf action, the obligation shall not become extinguished with regard 
to the other obligors save to the extent of that share in the obligation.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  100 
 Article (455 ) 
If an obligee does not agree to discharge the remainder of the jointly liable obligors from the 
obligat ion, he may not make a claim against them for anything other than the balance after 
deducting the share of the obligor whom he has discharged, unless he has reserved his right 
to have recourse against them for the whole obligation, and in that event they s hall have a 
right of recourse against the other obligor for his share therein.  
  
Article (456 ) 
If an obligee discharges one of the jointly liable obligors from the joint liability, he shall 
retain his right to have recourse against the others for the whole  of the obligation unless a 
contrary agreement has been made.  
  
Article (457 ) 
If an obligee discharges one of the jointly liable obligors from the obligation or from the joint 
liability, the remainder of the obligors may have recourse against that obligor for his 
contribution in the share of any of them who is bankrupt, unless the obligee has discharged him from all liability for the obligation, and the obligee shall then be responsible for the 
proportion of such obligor in the share of the bankrupt.  
  
Article (458 ) 
(1) If a claim against one of jointly liable obligors has become barred by effluxion of time, that fact shall not assist the remaining obligors save to the extent of the share of that obligor.  
(2) If time is interrupted or ceases to run with rega rd to one of the jointly liable obligors, the 
obligee may not rely on that fact as against the others.  
  
Article (459 ) 
A jointly liable obligor shall, in the performance of his obligation, be liable for his acts, and if the obligee gives him notice or sues  him, that shall be of no effect so far as concerns the 
remaining obligors, but if one of the jointly liable obligors gives notice to the obligee, that  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  101 
 shall benefit the others.  
  
Article (460 ) 
A composition made by one of the joint liable obligors with th e obligee shall not be effective 
if it creates a new liability as against them or if it increases their liability, unless they accept it 
and benefit from the composition if it involves a discharge from the obligation or a release 
from liability therefor in  any other way.  
  
Article (461 ) 
An admission of an obligation made by a jointly liable obligor shall be of no effect as against the others, nor shall the other jointly liable obligors be prejudiced if the obligee demands the 
oath from the obligor and he refuses or if the obligor demands the oath from the obligee and 
he takes it, but if the obligee demands the oath from the obligor and he takes it, the other obligors shall have the benefit thereof.  
  
Article (462 ) 
If a judgment is made against one of the joi ntly liable obligors, that shall be of no effect as 
against the remainder, but they shall benefit by it if the judgment is in his favour, unless it is based on a reason particular to him.  
  
Article (463 ) 
Any jointly liable obligor who has satisfied the obl igation shall have a right of recourse 
against any of the others up to the amount of that other's share, and if one of them is bankrupt he shall bear the consequences of that bankruptcy with the jointly liable obligors 
who are solvent, without prejudice to their right of recourse against the bankrupt if he 
becomes solvent again.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  102 
 Article (464 ) 
If one of the jointly liable obligors is the obligor originally liable under an obligation and the 
other obligors are guarantors, he shall not, after satisfying the obligation, have any right of 
recourse against them.  
  
Part  4: Indivisibility of dispositions  
Article (465 ) 
A disposition shall be indivisible if the nature of the subject matter precludes divisibility or if it appears from the intention of the contracti ng parties that it should not be permitted.  
  
Article (466 ) 
(1) If there are several obligees in an indivisible disposition, or if there are several heirs of the obligee in such disposition, any obligor or heir may make a claim for the satisfaction of the 
right in full.  
(2) If one of them objects, the obligor must discharge the obligation to them all jointly, or 
must lodge it with the competent authority as the law may provide.  
(3) Each of the obligors shall have a right of recourse for the amount of his share against the obligor who has received satisfaction of the right.  
  
Article (467 ) 
(1) If there are several obligees in an indivisible disposition, each of them shall be liable for the whole obligation.  
(2) A person who has satisfied a right shall have a right of recourse against each of the others up to the amount of his share.  
  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  103 
 Chapter Six:  Extinguishment of rights  
Part  1: Discharge  
Article ( 468 ) 
If the obligor discharges his obligee voluntarily of a right due to him, the right shall be 
extinguished. 
  
Article (469 ) 
The discharge shall not be dependent upon the agreement of the obligor, but shall be ineffective if rejected by him and if he dies bef ore acceptance the debt may not be recovered 
from his estate.  
  
Article (470 ) 
Discharge may only be in respect of an existing obligation, not a future obligation.  
  
Article (471 ) 
(1) The substantive provisions relating to gifts shall apply to discharges.  
(2) No particular form is required for a discharge but if it applies to a disposition it must 
satisfy the form laid down by law or agreed by the contracting parties.  
  
Part  2: Impossibility of performance  
Article (472 ) 
The rig ht shall expire if the obligor proves that the performance of it has become impossible 
for him for an extraneous cause in which he played no part.  
  
Part  3: Lapse of time barring a right  
Article (473 ) 
A right shall not expire by the passage of time but no claim shall be heard if denied after the 
lapse of fifteen years without lawful excuse, but having regard to any special provisions  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  104 
 relating thereto.  
  
Article (474 ) 
(1) No claim shall be heard in respe ct of any periodical renewing right, if denied, upon the 
lapse of five years, in the absence of lawful excuse. 
(2) With regard to yields accruing due by a person in possession acting in bad faith, the claim 
shall not be heard if denied upon the lapse of fi fteen years, in the absence of a lawful excuse.  
  
Article (475 ) 
If denied, and in the absence of lawful excuse, no claim shall be heard in respect of the 
following rights after the passage of five years: ‑ 
(1) rights of doctors, pharmacists, lawyers, engineers, experts, professors, teachers and 
brokers, if such rights are due to them by reason of professional services rendered, or by 
reason of disbursements incurred; 
(2) moneys reclaimable by reason of overpayment of taxes or duties, but without prejudice to the provisions of the special laws.  
  
Article (476 ) 
If denied, and in the absence of lawful excuse, no claim shall be heard in respect of the 
following rights upon the expiry of two years: - 
(a) rights of merchants and craftsmen in respect of items supplie d by them to persons not 
trading in those items, and rights of owners of hotels and restaurants in respect of the cost of 
accommodation and the cost of food, and moneys expended by them on account of their 
customers;  
(b) rights of workers, servants, and hi red people for daily or non -daily wages and the cost of 
supplies provided by them.  
  
Article (477 ) 
(1) Claims shall not be heard in the circumstances referred to in the foregoing article 
notwithstanding that the obligee may still be carrying out other work  for the obligor.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  105 
 (2) If there is a written acknowledgement or paper proving any of the rights set out in Article 
474, 475 or 476, the claim shall not be heard upon the lapse of fifteen years from their 
becoming due.  
  
Article (478 ) 
The period laid down fo r the prescription of claims shall commence as from the day upon 
which the right falls due for exercise and from the time a condition is satisfied if the right is 
dependent upon a condition, and from the time the entitlement is proved in claims under a 
guarantee of an entitlement.  
  
Article (479 ) 
Claims shall not be heard if left by a predecessor and then by the successor after him, and 
the total of the two periods amounts to the period laid down for prescription.  
  
Article (480 ) 
The period for t he prescription of claims shall be calculated in days.  The first day of that 
period shall not be taken into account, and the time shall expire at the end of the last day of 
the period, unless that day is an official holiday in which case the time shall be  extended to 
the following day.  
  
Article (481 ) 
(1) The running of time for prescription shall be suspended if there is a lawful excuse whereby the claim for the right could not be made.  
(2) The period during which that excuse subsisted shall not be taken into account in the 
prescription period.  
  
Article (482 ) 
If certain heirs do not bring a claim relating to their inheritance (during) the period laid 
down for such claim, with no lawful excuse, and the other heirs have a lawful excuse, the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  106 
 claim of those h eirs shall be heard up to the amount of their shares.  
  
Article (483 ) 
An admission by an obligor of a right, whether express or by implication, shall interrupt the 
time laid down for prescription.  
  
Article (484 ) 
The prescription period shall be interrupted upon a judicial claim being made or by any 
judicial proceeding being taken by an obligee to enforce his right.  
  
Article (485 ) 
(1) If the period of prescription is interrupted, a new period equivalent to the firs t period 
shall commence.  
(2) No right of whatever kind shall lapse if adjudicated upon by a judge in such a manner as not to admit of challenge.  
  
Article (486 ) 
If a claim for a right is barred by passage of time, no claim may be made in respect of matters  
ancillary to that right notwithstanding that the period of prescription for such ancillary 
matters may not have expired.  
  
Article (487 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible to waive a time- bar defence prior to the establishment of the 
right to raise such defe nce, nor shall it be permissible to agree that a claim may not be 
brought after a period differing from the period laid down by law.  
(2) It shall be permissible for any person having the competence to make dispositions in 
respect of his rights to waive the defence, even by way of implied waiver, after the right has 
been established, but provided that such waiver shall not be effective in respect of obligees if it is made so as to cause them detriment.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  107 
 Article (488 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for a judge to judge of his own motion that a case may not be 
heard.  Such order may only be made upon the application of the obligor or a party to the 
proceedings having an interest therein.  
(2) The defence may be raised at any stage of the proceedings unless it appears from the 
circumstances that the person having the right has waived it expressly or impliedly.  
  
Book Two: Contracts  
Section 1:  Contracts conferring ownership  
Chapter One:  Sale and Barter  
Part:  1 Sale 
(1) Definition and elements of sale  
Article (489 ) 
A sale is the exchange of non -money property for money.  
  
Article (490 ) 
(1) The property sold must be known to the purchaser sufficiently to avoid gross 
uncertainty.  
(2) The property sold must be known to the purchaser by its distinguishing characteristics  
and descriptions, and if the property is in his presence, an indication of it shall be sufficient.  
  
Article (491 ) 
If the contract of sale states that the purchaser is sufficiently aware of the property sold, he 
shall not have the right to avoid the contr act on the grounds of his lack of knowledge, unless 
he proves that the seller deceived him about it.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  108 
 Article (492 ) 
(1) If the sale is by sample, it shall be sufficient for that to be seen, and the property sold 
must conform to it.  
(2) If it appears tha t the property sold does not conform to the sample, the purchaser may 
elect to accept or reject it.  
  
Article (493 ) 
(1) If there is a dispute between the two contracting parties as to whether the thing sold 
conforms to the sample, and both the thing and th e sample are available, regard shall be had 
to the opinion of experts, and if the sample has been lost in the hands of one of the contracting parties, the other party shall have the last word as to whether the goods are in 
conformity or not, unless the oth er proves the contrary.  
(2) If the sample is in the hands of a third party by agreement between the parties, and is 
lost, and the object of sale is a specified thing and is agreed to be the thing contracted for, the 
seller shall have the last word as to whether the thing is in conformity unless the purchaser 
proves the contrary, and if the goods sold are specified by type, or are a specified thing and it 
is not agreed to be the thing contracted for, the purchaser shall have the last word as to 
whether the property is in conformity, unless the other party proves the contrary.  
  
Article (494 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible to make a sale subject to testing, with an agreement on a known period, and if the parties do not specify such period in the contract, a reasonable period shall 
apply.  
(2) The seller shall be obliged to give the buyer the opportunity to test.  
  
Article (495 ) 
(1) The purchaser may, within the testing period, either affirm or reject the sale, 
notwithstanding that the goods have not been tested, an d in the event of rejection the seller 
must be notified.  
(2) If the testing period expires and the purchaser remains silent, he having had the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  109 
 opportunity to test the goods, his silence shall be taken as an acceptance and the sale shall 
be binding.  
  
Article (496 ) 
If the object of the sale is destroyed in the hands of the purchaser after he has taken delivery of it, he shall be bound to pay to the seller the price specified, and if it is destroyed through a 
cause in which the purchaser played no part prior to delivery, such loss shall fall on the seller.  
  
Article (497 ) 
The provisions relating to sales shall apply to the goods sold as from the date of the sale, 
after testing and the purchaser consenting.  
  
Article (498 ) 
If the purchaser ceases to be of full capacity before he affirms the sale, the guardian or tutor or protector must elect what is in the purchaser's best interests, subject to the conditions and 
provisions laid down by law.  
  
Article (499 ) 
If the purchaser dies before he makes his election, and he has an obligee the extent of whose 
rights exceeds the deceased's assets, the right of approval shall be transferred to him, 
otherwise that right shall be transferred to his heirs, and if they agree to affirm or reject the 
same, what they agree on shall  be binding, and if some affirm and some reject, the rejection 
shall be binding.  
  
Article (500 ) 
The purchaser may not use the goods sold during the testing period save to the extent 
required by the testing as generally recognised, and if a greater use is made of which the aim 
is not testing, then the sale shall be binding.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  110 
 Article (501 ) 
The provisions relating to sales subject to testing shall apply to sales subject to tasting, save 
that the right of election subject to tasting shall not devolve by inherit ance, and the sale shall 
be conclusive.  
  
Article (502 ) 
The proceeds of the goods during the testing period shall belong to the seller, and the costs 
thereof shall be borne by him, but the proceeds shall be treated as part of the goods and shall belong to the purchaser if the sale becomes final.  
  
Article (503 ) 
"Price" means that which the parties have agreed in consideration of the sale, whether it is 
greater or less than the value, and "value" means the (true) value of the goods, neither more 
nor less.   
Article (504 ) 
If the parties to the sale agree to define the price by reference to the market rate, the rate shall be the market rate at the time and place of sale, and if there is no market at that place, the relevant place shall be that the current rates  of which are recognised by custom.  
  
Article (505 ) 
If the contracting parties declare a price contrary to their true agreement, the true price shall 
be taken to be the valid one.  
  
Article (506 ) 
(1) A sale may be by way of resale with a profit, a loss, or  at cost price if the capital value of 
the thing sold is known at the time of the contract, and the amount of the profit or loss is 
specified.  
(2) If it appears that the seller has exaggerated in declaring the amount of the capital value,  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  111 
 the purchaser may  reduce (the amount) by the amount of the excess.  
(3) If the capital value of the thing sold is not known when the contract is made, the 
purchaser may rescind the contract when he learns of it, and the same shall apply if the seller conceals a matter affec ting the thing sold or the capital value, and he shall lose his 
right to elect if the goods are sold or consumed or pass out of his ownership after delivery.  
  
Article (507 ) 
(1) An increase in price on the part of the purchaser after the contract is made s hall attach to 
the principal of the contract if the seller accepts, and the designated price plus the increase shall become the consideration for the entire subject matter of the sale.  
(2) Any deduction by the seller from the designated price after the con tract is made shall 
attach to the principal of the contract if the purchaser accepts, and the remaining balance 
shall become the designated price.  
  
Article (508 ) 
The price shall be payable immediately unless there is an agreement or a custom that it 
shoul d be deferred or paid in instalments over a known period.  
  
Article (509 ) 
If the price is deferred or payable in instalments, the period of deferment shall commence as at the date of delivery of the goods.  
  
Article (510 ) 
If the purchaser pays part of the price, he may not demand delivery of an equivalent part of 
the goods sold if dividing them up would result in a decrease in the value thereof.  
 
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  112 
 2- Effects of sale  
a- Obligations of the seller  
1- Transfer of ownership  
Article (511 ) 
(1) The ownership of the goods sold shall be transferred to the purchaser as soon as the sale 
is concluded, unless there is a provision of law or of the agreement to the contrary.  
(2) Each of the contracting parties shall (immediately) proceed to carry out  his obligations 
save such of them as are deferred.  
  
Article (512 ) 
If the sale is of unascertained goods, ownership shall be transferred to the purchaser in the 
same manner as it is transferred in respect of a specifically ascertained thing.  
  
Article (513) 
(1) If the price is deferred or payable in instalments, the seller may stipulate that the transfer of ownership to the purchaser be suspended until he pays the whole price, notwithstanding 
that the goods have been delivered.  
(2) If the price is paid in full, the transfer of ownership to the purchaser shall operate 
retrospectively to the time of the sale.  
 
2- Delivery of the property sold  
Article (514 ) 
The seller must deliver the goods to the purchaser free of a ny third party right unless there is 
an agreement or provision of law to the contrary, and the seller must also do what is necessary on his part to transfer ownership to the purchaser. 
  
Article (515 ) 
If, by law or in accordance with current practice, the nature of the goods sold requires the 
delivery of documents of title, the seller must deliver such documents to the purchaser, and  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  113 
 if he fails to deliver them or alleges that they have been lost and th ey then appear, the judge 
shall order him to deliver them, and if in the event of an allegation that they are lost, they do 
not appear, the purchaser may elect between rejecting or affirming the contract.  
  
Article (516 ) 
The seller shall be obliged to deli ver the goods sold to the purchaser in the same condition 
as they were at the time of the sale.  
  
Article (517 ) 
Delivery shall include the appurtenances of the thing sold, and such things as have been affixed to it or made for the use thereof in a permanen t manner, and everything which, by 
custom, is ancillary to the thing sold, notwithstanding that it is not mentioned in the contract.  
  
Article (518 ) 
Contracts over buildings or trees shall include the land upon which the building stands, and the land to wh ich the roots of the tree extends, and a contract over land shall include the 
buildings and trees on it unless there is a stipulation or a custom to the contrary in either such contract over land and a contract over a house shall include the fixtures there in but not 
the moveables, unless the purchaser stipulates that they should be included in the contract.  
  
Article (519 ) 
The sale of land shall not include crops growing on it in the absence of a provision or custom to the contrary.  
  
Article (520 ) 
The sale  of trees, whether directly or by way of appurtenance to the land, shall include the 
fruits on them which have not been pollinated or have not budded as to the whole or greater part thereof, but if they have been pollinated or have budded as to the whole o r  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  114 
 greater part thereof, the fruit shall not be included in the sale unless there is a provision or a 
custom that they shall form part of the subject matter of the sale, and if the pollinated or 
budded part amounts to one half only, each part shall be treat ed (separately) as aforesaid.  
  
Article (521 ) 
A contract for harvestable crops shall not include the second crop (in the same year) unless 
there is a provision or custom to the contrary.  
 
Article (522 ) 
If the seller validly delivers the goods sol d to the purchaser, he shall not thereafter be liable 
for what happens to the goods.  
  
Article (523 ) 
If the contract specifies the quantity of the goods to be sold and it appears that there is a shortfall or an excess in them, then, if there is no provisio n or custom in that regard, the 
following rules shall have effect:  
(1) If the goods sold would not be harmed by being divided, the excess belongs to the seller, 
and he may recover the same in specie, and any shortfall is to his account, whether the price 
is fixed per unit or by measure, or for the whole goods.  
(2) If the goods would be harmed by being divided and the price has been fixed by unit or measure, then the excess shall belong to the seller and he shall be entitled to the price 
thereof, and any sho rtfall shall be to his account. If however a price has been fixed for the 
goods as a lot, the excess shall belong to the purchaser, and there shall be no change in the 
price if there is a shortfall. 
(3) If the excess or shortfall places a greater obligation upon the purchaser than that for 
which he contracted to purchase or amounts to a different bargain for him, he shall have the 
option to rescind the contract unless the amount is minimal, and the shortfall does not 
prejudice the intention of the purchaser .  
(4) If the purchaser takes delivery of the goods sold knowing that they are short, he shall lose 
his right to elect to rescind the contract as referred to in the foregoing paragraph.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  115 
 Article (524 ) 
No claim for rescission of a contract or for a reduction  in or supplement to the purchase 
price shall be heard after the expiration of one year from the date of delivery of the goods.  
  
Article (525 ) 
(1) Delivery of the goods may be by actual delivery or by the seller leaving the way open to 
the purchaser to ta ke the goods, with permission for him to take them, without there being 
any obstacle to his coming into possession of them.  
(2) The delivery of anything  shall be according to the nature thereof, and in accordance with 
the agreement or custom.  
 
Article (526 ) 
If the goods sold are in the possession of the purchaser prior to the sale in any capacity or for 
any reason, such possession shall be regarded as delivery in the absence of an agreement to the contrary.  
  
Article (527 ) 
If the contracting parties agree t hat in a specific instance the purchaser should be regarded 
as having taken delivery of the goods sold, or if the law requires that certain instances 
should be regarded as amounting to delivery, constructive delivery shall be deemed to have 
taken place.  
  
Article (528 ) 
Constructive delivery shall be deemed to have taken place by registration of the thing sold in the name of the purchaser if the law requires the registration of the transfer of ownership.  
  
Article (529 ) 
Constructive delivery shall likewise b e deemed to have taken place in the two following 
cases:   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  116 
 (1) If the seller retains the goods sold in his possession at the request of the purchaser. 
(2) If the seller gives notice to the purchaser to pay the price and take delivery of the goods 
within a fi xed period, failing which they will be deemed to have been delivered, and he does 
not do so.  
  
Article (530 ) 
(1) The seller shall be obliged to deliver the goods sold at the place where they are at the 
time the contract is made.  
(2) If it is stipulated in the contract, or if there is a custom, that the goods sold should be sent 
to the purchaser, delivery will only be made if the goods reach him, unless there is an 
agreement to the contrary.  
  
Article (531 ) 
(1) If the goods sold are destroyed prior to delivery through a cause in which neither of the 
contracting parties played any part, the sale shall be cancelled and the purchaser shall be 
entitled to recover the price which he has paid.  
 (2) If part of the goods sold are lost, the purchaser shall have the option as he wishes either 
to cancel the sale or to take the balance for the appropriate portion of the price.  
 
Article (532 ) 
 (1) If the goods sold are destroyed prior to delivery or if part of them is los t through the act 
of the purchaser, he shall be deemed to have taken delivery of the goods sold, and he shall 
be bound to pay the price.  
(2) If the seller has the right to elect in such circumstances and he chooses to cancel , the 
purchaser shall be liable either to provide the equivalent of the goods sold or the value 
thereof, and he shall be the owner of the remainder.  
  
Article (533 ) 
(1) If the goods sold are destroyed prior to delivery through the act of a third party, the  
purchaser shall have the option as he wishes either to cancel the sale or to affirm it, and he  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  117 
 shall have a right of recourse against the person who has caused the loss either for 
equivalent goods or for the value thereof.  
(2) If part of the goods are des troyed, the purchaser may elect between the following 
options:  
(a) to cancel the contract;  
(b) to take the remainder for the appropriate proportion of the price and to rescind the 
contract with regard to the balance; or  
(c) to affirm the contract as to the  whole of the goods sold at the stipulated price, and to 
have recourse against the person who has caused the loss for that loss to be made good.  
  
Article (534 ) 
(1) The seller shall ensure that the goods sold are free of the right of any third party who ma y 
object to the purchaser (sic) if the cause of that third party right antedates the contract of 
sale.  
(2) The seller shall also ensure that the goods sold are free of any third party right if such 
right is based on a cause arising after the sale out of hi s act.  
  
Article (535 ) 
(1) Any claim by a third party for his rights over the goods sold prior to delivery thereof must 
be directed both against the seller and the purchaser.  
(2) If the claim is brought after delivery of the goods sold and the purchaser does not join the 
seller in the action at the appropriate time and a judgment is issued against him which 
becomes final, he shall lose his right of recourse for an indemnity if the seller proves that if 
he had been joined in the action the result would have been the dismissal of the third party's 
claim of right.  
  
Article (536 ) 
(1) If judgment is passed affirming a third party right over the goods sold, such third party may have recourse against the seller for the price if he affirms the sale, and the goods sold 
shall then belong exclusively to the purchaser.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  118 
 (2) If the third party claimant does not affirm the sale, the contract shall be cancelled, and 
the purchaser may have recourse against the seller for the price.  
(3) The seller shall compensate the purchas er for any useful improvement in the goods sold 
made by the latter calculated on the value thereof on the day of delivery to the third party 
claimant.  
(4) The buyer shall likewise make good to the purchaser any loss arising out of the third party claim to the goods sold.  
  
Article (537 ) 
(1) Any condition that the seller shall not be liable for the price if there is a third party claim 
over the goods sold shall be invalid, and the sale shall be defective (voidable) on account of 
such condition.  
(2) If the purchaser knows that the goods sold are not the property of the seller, that fact 
shall be no bar to his having recourse for the price in the event of there being a third party 
right.  
  
Article (538 ) 
If the third party right is based on an admission by the purchaser or his refusal to take the 
oath, he shall have no recourse against the seller. 
  
Article (539 ) 
(1) If the purchaser makes a settlement with a third party claimant over property prior to judgment in favour of the latter, and the seller  denies the right of the claimant, it shall be 
open to the purchaser to prove that the claimant was justified in his claim, and, after proving 
the foregoing, the seller shall have the option either to pay the equivalent of the settlement 
amount or to retur n the price to the purchaser.  
(2) If settlement is made after judgment in favour of the third party claimant, the purchaser shall (sic) retain the goods sold, and he shall have a right of recourse against the seller for the price.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  119 
 Article (540 ) 
(1) If a third party claim arises over part of the goods sold prior to the purchaser taking 
delivery of the whole of it, he may return what he has taken and recover the price, or he may 
accept the sale and have a recourse in respect of that part subject to the third party right.  
(2) If a third party right arises over part of the goods sold after delivery of the whole of them 
and the third party right gives rise to a defect in the remainder, the purchaser may return the 
goods and have a recourse against the seller for the price, or he may keep the remainder for 
the appropriate proportion of the price, and if the third party claim does not give rise to a 
defect and the part over which the third party claim has arisen is the lesser part, the 
purchaser may only have recourse for that part over which the third party claim has arisen.  
(3) If it becomes apparent after the sale that there is a right over the goods sold in favour of a third party, the purchaser shall have the option either to wait until that right cea ses, or to 
cancel the sale and have recourse against the seller for the price.  
(4) It shall be presumed in the case of an easement that the seller had stipulated that he should not be liable in respect thereof if such right was obvious, or if the seller ha d informed 
the purchaser of it. 
  
Article (541 ) 
(1) If a third party claim is made after the goods have been destroyed in the hands of the 
purchaser, he shall make good to the third party claimant the value thereof as at the date of the purchase, and shall  have a right of recourse against the seller for the price.  
(2) If the value which the purchaser has to make good is greater than the stipulated price, he 
shall have a recourse for the difference and shall be entitled to an indemnity  for the damages 
due to him in accordance with Article 536(4).  
  
Article (542 ) 
The third party claimant may claim against the purchaser for any yield deriving from the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  120 
 goods sold or exploitation made thereof after deducting any expenses necessary to produc e 
such a profit, and the purchaser shall have a right of recourse against the seller for anything 
he has paid to the third party claimant.  
 
3- Liability for latent defects  
Article (543 ) 
(1) A sale shall be deemed to have been concluded on the basis that t he goods sold are free 
of any defects, save such as are within the customary tolerance.  
(2) The general rules relating to the option for defects shall apply to the contract of sale, 
subject to the provisions of the following Articles.  
  
Article (544 ) 
(1) I f an old (pre -existing) defect appears in the goods sold, the purchaser shall have the 
option as he wishes either to return the goods or to accept them at the stipulated price, but he may not keep them and claim for any reduction in price (sic: should poss ibly be "value") 
caused by the defect.  
(2) The defect shall be deemed to be old if it was present in the goods sold prior to the sale, or if it arises thereafter while the goods are still in the hands of the seller prior to delivery.  
(3) A new defect (whic h arises while the goods are) with the purchaser shall be regarded as 
an old defect if it is attributable to an old cause which existed in the goods when they were still with the seller.  
(4) For a defect to be regarded as old it must have been latent, and a latent defect is one 
which cannot be observed by an external inspection of the goods, or which would not be 
apparent to the ordinary man, or which could not be discovered by any person other than an 
expert, or which would only be apparent upon testing.  
 
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  121 
 Article (545 ) 
The seller shall not be responsible for old defects in the following circumstances:  
(1) If the seller disclosed the defect to the purchaser at the time of sale.  
(2) If the seller accepted the defect after he had seen i t, or after learning thereof from 
another person.  
(3) If the purchaser purchases the goods with knowledge of the defect therein.  
(4) if the seller sells the goods with a condition that he is not to be liable for any defect 
therein, or for a specified defect, unless the seller deliberately conceals the defect or if the 
buyer is prevented from seeing the defect.  
(5) If the sale is by public auction by the judicial or administrative authorities.  
  
Article (546 ) 
If the purchaser disposes the goods as owner aft er becoming aware of the old defect, his 
option shall lapse.  
  
Article (547 ) 
If goods with an old defect are lost in the hands of the purchaser or if he consumes them 
prior to his knowledge of the defect, he shall have a right of recourse against the seller for 
any reduction in price (sic) caused by the defect.  
  
Article (548 ) 
(1) If a new defect arises in the goods in the hands of the purchaser, he may not return them 
on the grounds of an old defect, but he shall be restricted to a claim against the seller for the 
reduction in price, unless the seller agrees to take the goods back with the new defect.  
(2) If the new defect is removed, the purchaser shall again have a righ t to return the goods to 
the seller on the grounds of the old defect.  
 
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  122 
 Article (549 ) 
(1) If an addition is made to the property sold which prevents its being returned, and an old 
defect in it subsequently becomes apparent to the purchaser, he shall have a right of 
recourse against the seller for the reduction (in value) caused by the defect, but the seller shall not have the right to recover the property sold.  
(2) An addition which prevents return is any thing from the property of the purchaser which 
becomes joined with the property sold.  
  
Article (550 ) 
(1) If several things are sold under one agreement and a defect appears in part of them prior 
to delivery, the purchaser shall have the option either to accept them at the stipulated price, 
or to return the whole of them.  
(2) If several things are sold under one agreement and an old defect becomes apparent in 
part of them after delivery, and no loss would be caused by dividing them, the purchaser 
may return the defective part for an appropriate portion of the price, but he may not return 
the whole of the goods without the consent of the seller, but if loss woul d be caused by 
dividing them, he may either return the whole of the goods or accept them at the full price.  
  
Article (551 ) 
(1) If the property sold has a defect whereby it may be returned, and the purchaser has 
created a third party right thereover prior to his knowledge of the defect, but the property 
still remains within his ownership, he may return it to the seller with that defect free of such 
third party right if the property has not been altered during that period.  
(2) If the purchaser creates a thir d party right after becoming aware of the defect, he shall 
lose his right to return goods, and if the property has been altered it shall be treated as a new 
alteration to property with an old defect.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  123 
 Article (552 ) 
The right of the purchaser to return the property on the grounds of a defect shall not lapse 
by reason of a change in the value thereof.  
  
Article (553 ) 
(1) Any yield of the property returned on the grounds of a defect which is not regarded as 
part of the property shall belong to the purchaser  as from the time he receives the goods 
until the time the sale is cancelled, and he shall not have any recourse against the seller for any moneys expended on the property.  
(2) Any yield of the property sold which is deemed to be part of it shall belong to the seller.  
(3) As for property which has no yield, the purchaser shall have a right of recourse against the seller for moneys spent on it.  
  
Article (554 ) 
Liability for property returned on the grounds of a defect shall pass from the purchaser to 
the sel ler as soon as the seller agrees to take it back from the purchaser notwithstanding that 
he has not in fact taken it back, or immediately upon proof in a court of law of the defect in 
the property sold giving a right to return the same, notwithstanding tha t there is no order 
that it be returned, in the event that the seller is present, and if he is absent the liability shall 
only pass to him upon the issue of a judgment for the return of the property.  
  
Article (555 ) 
(1) A claim of liability for a defect sh all become time barred upon the expiration of six 
months from receipt of the property unless the seller has undertaken to be responsible for a 
longer period.  
(2) The seller may not rely on that time limit if it is approved that the concealment of the defec t was by a fraud on his part.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  124 
 b- Obligations of the purchaser 
1- Payment of the price and taking delivery of the goods  
Article (556 ) 
The purchaser must pay the price when the contract is initially made and before the delivery 
of the property and before a claim is made for it, unless a contrary agreement has been 
made.  
  
Article (557 ) 
(1) The seller may retain the property until the price due to him is paid, notwithstanding that 
the purchaser may have delivered a pledge or a guarantee.  
(2) If the seller a grees to defer the price, his right to retain the property sold shall lapse, and 
he shall be obliged to deliver it to the purchaser.  
  
Article (558 ) 
If the property sold is destroyed in the hands of the seller while he is retaining it, the loss shall fall on the purchaser unless the destruction of the property was due to the act of the 
seller.  
  
Article (559 ) 
(1) If the purchaser takes the property in the sight of the seller before paying the price and the seller does not prevent him, that fact shall amount  to permission to take delivery.  
(2) If the purchaser takes the property sold before paying the price, without the permission 
of the seller, the seller shall have the right to recover it, and if the property is destroyed or 
becomes defective in the hands o f the seller, he shall be deemed to have taken delivery of it.  
  
Article (560 ) 
If the purchaser damages the goods, even unintentionally, that shall be regarded as taking delivery.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  125 
 Article (561 ) 
If the purchaser does not know where the property sold is at the time of the contract and he 
thereafter finds out, he shall have the option as he wishes to cancel or to affirm the sale, and 
to take delivery of the property at the place where it is.  
  
Article (562 ) 
(1) The purchaser shall be obliged to hand over t he price if it is immediately payable at the 
place where the property is at the time of the contract, unless there is an agreement or a custom to the contrary.  
(2) If the price is a deferred debt owed by the purchaser and there is no agreement for payment thereof at a specified place, he shall be obliged to pay it at the residence of the 
purchaser (sic) when payment falls due.  
  
Article (563 ) 
If the purchaser takes a thing in the course of negotiations for purchase, and it is destroyed 
or lost in his hands and the price has been specified, he shall be bound to pay it, and if the 
price has not been agreed, the purchaser shall not be liable save for his wrongful act or 
default.  
  
Article (564 ) 
(1) If a third party claim over the property sold is brought agains t the purchaser, in reliance 
on a right antedating the sale, or which follows him through the seller, it shall be permissible 
for the purchaser to retain the price until the seller provides a suitable guarantee securing the return of the price to the purch aser upon the third party right being proved, and the 
seller may apply to the court to order the purchaser to deposit the price with it in lieu of 
providing a guarantee.  
(2) The provisions of the foregoing paragraph shall apply if the purchaser discovers a n old 
defect in the property guaranteed by the seller.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  126 
 Article (565 ) 
If a specific time for the payment of the price is laid down in the contract and it is stipulated 
therein that if the purchaser does not pay the price within that time then there will be no 
sale, then, if he does not pay the price and the property is still in the hands of the seller; the sale shall be deemed to be cancelled.  
  
Article (566 ) 
(1) If the purchaser takes delivery of the property and then dies bankrupt before paying the price, the seller may not recover the property, but the purchase price shall become a debt as 
against the estate, and the seller shall take his place with the other creditors.  
(2) If the purchaser dies bankrupt before taking delivery of the property and paying  the 
price, the seller shall have the right to retain the property until the price is paid out of the 
estate, and he shall have a priority right over the other creditors.  
(3) If the seller receives the price and dies bankrupt before delivering the property , the 
property shall be regarded as being held in trust by him, and the purchaser shall have a 
priority right over the other creditors.  
  
2- The costs of sale  
Article (567 ) 
The costs of delivering the price, and of the contract of sale, registration thereof and other 
costs, shall be borne by the purchaser, and the costs of delivering the property shall be borne 
by the seller, unless there is a contrary agreement, provision of law, or custom to the 
contrary.  
  
  
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  127 
 Part  2: Various types of sale  
1- Forward sales  
Article (568 ) 
A forward sale is for property the delivery of which is deferred, against a price payable 
immediately.  
  
Article (569 ) 
The following conditions must be satisfied for a forward sale to be valid:  
(1) the property must be such as can be specified by description and quantity, and it must normally be available at the time of delivery; and (2) the contract must contain particulars of the nature, type, description and amount of the 
goods, and the time at which they are to be delivered.  
  
Article (570 ) 
The capital (i.e.  the price) of the property must be ascertained as to amount and type, and 
must not be deferred for a period of more than three days.  
  
Article (571 ) 
The purchaser may dispose of the property sold by way of forward sale before taking 
delivery of it.  
  
Article (572 ) 
If it is impossible to deliver the goods at the due time because they are no longer available through an unforeseen occurrence, the purchaser may elect between waiting until they are 
available, or cancelling the sa le. 
  
Article (573 ) 
If the seller by way of forward sale dies before the time comes to deliver the goods, the purchaser shall have the option as he wishes between cancelling the contract and  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  128 
 recovering the price from the estate, or waiting until the due time comes, and in that event 
he may place a restriction upon the estate to an amount in the value of the property, unless 
the heirs provide a sufficient guarantee to secure delivery of the property when the due time comes.  
  
Article (574 ) 
(1) If a purchaser by way of forward sale exploits the need of a farmer and buys a future harvest from him at a rate or upon conditions which are clearly oppressive, the seller may, 
when the time comes for payment, apply to the court for a variation in the rate or the 
conditions so as to remove the element of oppression.  In that event the court shall take into 
account the circumstances of time and place, and the general level of prices and the 
differe nce between them at the time of the contract and delivery in accordance with custom.  
(2) The purchaser shall have the right not to accept the amendment made by the court, and 
he may instead recover the actual price which he has in fa ct paid to the seller, and in that 
event the seller shall have the right to sell the crop to whomever he wishes.  
(3) Any agreement or condition purporting to nullify that right, whether it is a condition in 
the contract of forward sale itself or in the for m of a separate obligation, shall be void, of 
whatever type it may be.  
  
Article (575 ) 
The consideration moving from each party in a forward sale may not be foodstuffs against 
foodstuffs or money against money, and in connection with consideration other th an 
foodstuffs, it is sufficient that they be different in type and use.  
  
Article (576 ) 
(1) If the goods the subject matter of a forward sale are such as to have a specific time for 
appearing, but they do not appear when the time comes prior to the purchas er taking receipt 
thereof, he shall be bound to wait until the second appearance if the delay in taking delivery is attributable to him, and if it is not attributable to him, he shall have the option between cancelling the contract of forward sale, and wai ting until the goods appear.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  129 
 (2) If the goods cease to exist after the purchaser has received part thereof, he must wait for 
the remainder unless the parties have agreed upon payment of a pro rata consideration for 
that part which has been received.  
  
Article (577 ) 
The obligation to deliver goods sold by way of forward sale must be discharged by delivering goods of that nature, but it may, by agreement, be discharged by delivering goods of a 
different nature on the following conditions:  
(a) the substituted consideration must be given immediately;  
(b) the substitute must be such as can properly form the  subject of a forward sale; and  
(c) the goods sold by way of forward sale must not be foodstuffs.  
  
Article (578 ) 
When the time comes for delivery of goods sold by way of forward sale, the seller must 
deliver them to the purchaser at the place agreed by them both or at the place at which the 
contract of forward sale was made if no place has been specified, and the seller shall not be 
bound to deliver the goods nor shall the purchaser be bound to take delivery of them from 
him at any other place, unless they have made a contrary agreement.  
  
Article (579 ) 
(1) If there is a dispute between the seller and the purchaser as to the amount of the forward 
goods or as to the period of deferment, and neither party has independent evidence thereof, 
the word of the person alleging what is the more common practice between people shall be preferred, and if there is no common practice then the dispute shall be settled half way between what each party alleges.  
(2) If they are in dispute as to the place of delivery of the forward goods, the word of the person who claims that they are to be delivered at the place where the forward sale contract 
was made shall be preferred, and if n either party makes such an allegation, the goods must 
be delivered at the (regular) market place for those goods in the place where the contract 
was made.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  130 
 2- Sales of air space  
Article (580 ) 
It shall be permissible to sell space for building in it in any of the following circumstances:  
(a) sale of space above land, and the permissibility thereof shall not be dependent upon the 
description of what is to be built;  
(b) sale of space above a building on condit ion that the building which is to be placed upon 
it is described; and  
(c) sale of space above space on condition that both the lower and upper buildings are 
described.  In the event of any of the three types of sale aforesaid, the purchaser shall 
become th e owner of the whole of the space above the land or above the building up to the 
limits of what he has purchased out of such space, but he shall not have the right to build more than was agreed save with the consent of the owner or the owner of the lower 
building.  
  
Article (581 ) 
A sale of space shall be presumed to be in perpetuity, and the following shall result from it:  
(1) the sale shall not be rescinded by virtue of the destruction either of the lower building or 
of the upper building; and 
(2) the owne r of the lower building must restore his building if it has been demolished, and 
must repair it if it has become weakened, and the owner of the upper building may, with the 
consent of the owner of the lower building or by leave of the court, restore his bu ilding.  
  
3- Sales of unascertained goods  
Article (582 ) 
(1) A sale of unascertained goods is a sale of what may be weighed or measured or may be 
reckoned without weighing or measuring, or reckoned sufficiently to ascertain the whole, 
and a sale may be of unascertained goods notwithstanding that the determination of the price depends on the amount of the goods to be sold.  
(2) The following conditions must be satisfied for a sale of unascertained goods to be valid:   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  131 
 (a) the purchaser must have seen the goods at the time the contract was made, or must have 
seen them prior to the contract in such a way as the goods would not normally alter 
thereafter by the time of the contract, unless there has been a defect in his inspection, and it is sufficient that he should  have knowledge of the nature thereof; and  
(b) both the contracting parties should be unaware of the measure, weight or number of the 
goods, but the same should be ascertainable overall, and if either party proves that at the 
time the contract was made the other party did know the quantity of the goods, the contract 
shall be voidable, and if he learns of the other's knowledge thereof after the contract is 
made, he shall have the option either to reject the sale or to affirm it.  
  
4- Deferred sales  
Article (583 ) 
Whoever sells a thing for a deferred price may purchase it for an immediately payable or a deferred price from the person selling it to him, unless the two sales differ as to price and 
period of deferment and the payment of the lower price precedes th e payment of the higher 
price, and in that event the second sale shall be cancelled if the property sold exists, and if it does not exist, both sales shall be cancelled.  
  
5- Assisted sales  
Article (584 ) 
An assisted sale is one which takes place between a person who holds himself out (as being available) to place a purchase order for goods which are not (immediately available) 
between him and the person asking for the goods, and who, if goods are ordered from him, purchases them and sells them to the person  who has ordered them with an increase over 
the purchase price thereof, and such a sale is permissible unless it amounts to a loan with 
interest, which is when the person from whom the goods were ordered sells the goods to the 
person ordering them at a def erred price exceeding the price agreed between them, and if 
the sale takes place in that manner the second purchase shall be cancelled and the goods 
shall pass at the price agreed between the two parties to the original sale, with the addition 
of the least  commission payable by way of profit for arranging such deals.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  132 
 6- Sales of foodstuffs and other goods before receipt  
Article (585 ) 
It shall be permissible for a person who has acquired ownership of a thing by purchase or 
otherwise to sell it before taking delivery of it from the person who is to pass property to 
him, unless the subject matter is foodstuffs in a commutative contract, in which event it shall not be permi ssible for a person who has bought such goods by measure to sell them prior to 
taking delivery thereof by measure, but if he purchases them as unascertained goods, he may sell them prior to taking delivery thereof.  
 
7- Sales of fruit 
Article (586 ) 
(1) It s hall be permissible to sell fruit notwithstanding that it has not yet become fit for 
consumption if it is sold together with the roots, but it shall not be permissible to sell fruit separately from the roots unless it has become fit for consumption, or unl ess some of it has 
become fit for consumption, and the appearance of fitness for consumption shall mean near maturity or fitness for eating or other use.  
(2) If the roots of fruits are such that the inner part may be eaten during the year, it shall be 
permissible to sell the inner parts if the fitness for the consumption of the first inner part has 
become apparent, if the inner parts are connected, and it is not possible to distinguish one 
part from the other, but if they are distinguishable, it shall not b e permissible to sell the 
second inner part until the fitness for consumption thereof has become apparent.  
  
Article (587 ) 
If after sale fruits are attacked by a blight which cannot normally be prevented, the 
purchaser shall have the right to demand a redu ction in price the equivalent to the loss 
suffered by the blight if the damage occurred prior to ripening and normal harvesting and if the value of the damage amounts to one third or more of the value of the fruits, unless the blight is by reason of drough t, in which event the price shall be reduced by the value of the 
damage suffered, notwithstanding that the same may be less than one
 third.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  133 
 8- Sale of cultivated and sown land  
Article (588 ) 
(1) If land sold contains crops which are harvested only once a year, they shall vest in the 
seller until the time for harvesting, unless the purchaser stipulates that they shall belong to 
him.  
(2) If the land sold contains crops which may be repeatedly harvested or which continually fruit, the roots shall belong to the purchaser and the available harvest then apparent shall 
belong to the seller and he must pick the crop immediately, unless the purchaser stipulates 
that the same shall belong to him, in which event he must pick it immediately.  
  
Article (589 ) 
(1) If sown land is sold and the seeds are such that the plants thereon are harvested only 
once a year, both the seeds and the plants shall belong to the seller, but if the purchaser does 
not know that there are seeds in the land at the time of the contrac t, he shall have the option 
either to cancel or affirm the contract, without liability.  
(2) If the seeds are such that their plants may be cropped several times a year or the fruits thereof appear continuously, or if the roots remain, the same shall belong  to the purchaser.  
 
9- Form of sale of palms and trees  
Article (590 ) 
(1) If palms whose spadixes have split, or trees whose buds and blossoms have appeared are sold, then that which has split or appeared shall belong to the seller, being left until ha rvest 
time, and anything sold prior thereto shall belong to the purchaser, and the evidence on oath of the seller as to the appearing or splitting shall be preferred.  
(2) Both the seller and the purchaser shall have the right to stipulate who shall be the owner 
of all or part.  
  
Article (591 ) 
(1) If some of the spadixes on a palm have split or if some of the fruit has appeared on a  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  134 
 single tree, then all of the spadixes shall be deemed to have split, and all of the fruit to have 
appeared.  
(2) If there are se veral palms or trees and the spadixes have split or the fruit has appeared on 
some to the exclusion of the others, each tree shall be treated separately.  
  
10-Sale of foodstuffs inside an outer casing 
Article (592 ) 
It shall be permissible to sell foodstuff s in their outer casing, and grain enclosed in its husk or 
skin.  
  
Article (593 ) 
(1) If a person purchases foodstuffs in the outer casing, and breaks it and finds that it is spoilt, and the broken part has no value, he shall have a recourse for the whole o f the price if 
the whole is spoilt, or for the equivalent part of what is spoilt if part only is so spoilt.  
(2) If the part broken has a value, he shall have the option either -to keep the goods and 
receive compensation, or to return them together with any loss in value by breaking, and if 
the goods sold are lost, compensation shall be due to the purchaser.  
  
11- Sale of an inheritance  
Article (594 ) 
A sale of an inheritance is a sale by an heir of his proportion in the estate after the death of the legator to one or more heirs for a known consideration, notwithstanding that the assets 
of the estate have not been ascertained.  
  
Article (595 ) 
(1) A contract of sale of an inheritance shall transfer the portion of the seller in the estate to the purchaser, and  the purchaser shall take the place of the seller in such portion.  
(2) A sale of an inheritance shall not include all of the property of the deceased appearing after the contract of which the contracting parties were not aware at the time the contract  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  135 
 was made, nor shall it include the rights of the estate against the contracting parties or either 
of them, nor the rights which they or either of them have over it.  
  
Article (596 ) 
The seller shall warrant to the purchaser no more than the existence of the est ate and the 
fact that he has a share therein, in the event that the contract does not specify what the 
estate comprises.  
  
12- Sales by a terminally ill person  
Article (597 ) 
(1) Terminal illness is an illness wherein a person cannot go about his normal business and in which the greater probability is that he will die in that condition prior to the expiration of 
one year, and if his illness continues for a period of one year or more with him remaining in 
the same condition without becoming worse, his disposi tions shall be treated as those of a 
healthy person.  
(2) A terminal illness shall be deemed to include conditions in which people fear death and in which they normally die, notwithstanding that there may in fact be no such sickness. 
  
Article (598 ) 
If a si ck person sells some of his property to one of his heirs, the provisions of the following 
Article shall apply.  
  
Article (599 ) 
(1) If a sick person sells to a stranger at a fair price or with a slight element of cheating, the 
sale shall be effective and no t dependent upon the consent of the heirs.  
(2) If such sale is at a price less than the value of the thing sold at the time of death, the sale 
shall be effective as against the heirs if the excess amount of the value of the thing sold over 
the price does n ot exceed one third of the estate, including the thing sold itself.  
(3) If such difference is greater than one third of the estate, the sale shall not be effective  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  136 
 unless it is affirmed by the heirs or the purchaser makes up two thirds of the value of the 
thing sold, otherwise the heirs shall have the right to cancel the sale. 
  
Article (600 ) 
A sale by a sick person to a stranger shall not be effective if it is for less than the true value, 
even if the cheating may only be slight as against the obligees, i f the debt exceeds the estate, 
and the purchaser may pay the true price, failing which the obligees shall have the right to 
cancel the sale.  
  
Article (601 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible to cancel the sale of a sick person if the purchaser has disposed of the goods sold in such a way as to confer a right against consideration upon a third party acting in good faith.  
(2) In that event, it shall be permissible for the obligees of an estate insufficient to meet its debts to have recourse against the person who made the purchase from the sick person for 
the difference between the price and the value of the thing sold, and the heirs shall have that 
right if the purchaser is one of them, but if the purchaser is a stranger, then he must return such sum as shall m ake up two thirds of the value of the thing sold to the estate.  
  
13- Sale by an agent to himself  
Article (602 ) 
It shall not be permissible for a person acting on behalf of another whether by a provision in 
the law or by agreement or by order of a competen t authority to purchase for himself 
whether directly or under an assumed name or by way of auction any property entrusted to 
him by virtue of such proxy, subject to the provisions of any special laws.  
  
Article (603 ) 
It shall not be permissible for brokers  or experts to purchase in their own names or in a 
borrowed name property which has been entrusted to them for sale.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  137 
 Article (604 ) 
By way of exception to the provisions contained in the two foregoing paragraphs, it shall be 
permissible for a proxy, broker or expert to purchase property for himself if he is so 
permitted by the principal or the person having an interest therein.  
  
14- Sale of property of a third party  
Article (605 ) 
If a person sells property of a third party without his consent, the sale shal l be dependent 
upon the consent of the owner.  
  
Article (606 ) 
If the owner affirms the sale, the contract shall be valid so far as concerns him and the purchaser, and the contract shall likewise be valid if ownership of the property sold vests in 
the sel ler after the contract is made.  
 
Part  3: Barter  
Article (607 ) 
Bartering is the exchange of property or a property right for a non -money consideration.  
  
Article (608 ) 
Each of the contracting parties in a barter contract shall be deemed to be both seller and 
purchaser at the same time.  
  
Article (609 ) 
A barter shall still be a barter notwithstanding that a money consideration is added in the exchange.  
  
Article (610 ) 
The  expenses of the barter contract, the costs of delivery, and the like, shall be borne equally  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  138 
 between the two parties to the contract unless a contrary agreement is made.  
  
Article (611 ) 
The provisions relating to sale shall apply to a barter to the extent that they are not 
inconsistent with the nature thereof.  
  
Part  4: Prohibited sales and barters  
Article (612 ) 
There may be no sale or barter of the following:  
(a) that which is concealed in the earth, until extracted and visible; and 
(b) the semen of stud horses.  
  
Article (613 ) 
Sales and barters shall be forbidden and defective in the following circumstances:  
(a) if one or both of the contracting parties are bound to observe Friday prayers, and the 
contract is made after one of the parties is in the mosque after the call to prayer, until the 
prayer is finished.  The same applies if either or both of the contracting parties are bound to 
observe obligatory prayer and the contract is made after the time for so doing is becoming 
short, such that only just sufficient time remains, but the contract shall be valid in such 
circumstances in extremis or compelling necessity;  
(b) if the contract is made over a property to be used to commit an offence, and one of the two contracting parties knows of that fact from the other, even by circumstantial evidence; 
or 
(c) if goods sold by way of forward sale are rebought or sold (in a manner prejudicial to such 
forward sale) or, if h aving been so bartered, are re- bartered during the continuance of the 
period of either of the options of the majlis or conditionality.  
 
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  139 
 Chapter  2: Gifts  
Part  1: Elements of and conditions for the effectiveness of a gift 
Article (614 ) 
(1) A gift is t he passing of property or a right in property to another person during the period 
of the lifetime of the owner, without consideration.  
(2) It shall be permissible for the donor, while still intending to make a gift, to make it a 
condition that the donee sh ould perform a specified obligation, and such obligation shall be 
regarded as consideration.  
  
Article (615 ) 
(1) A gift shall be made upon acceptance and offer, and shall become perfected upon 
receipt.  
(2) Mere offer shall be sufficient for a gift if the d onor is the guardian or protector of the 
donee and the property given is in his possession, and the same shall apply notwithstanding 
that the donee is a minor of whom the donor has charge of the upbringing.  
  
Article (616 ) 
A contract of gift shall not be effective if the property given is not owned by the donor, unless affirmed by the owner, and receipt is taken by his consent.  
  
Article (617 ) 
(1) The gift of a debt to a debtor shall be valid, and shall be regarded as a disc harge.  
(2) A gift shall be valid if made to a person other than a debtor, and shall be effective if the 
debtor pays the debt to (sic - should possibly be "on behalf of") the donee.  
  
Article (618 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for a donor to recover the property given if the contract so stipulates in the event that the donee does not carry out specified obligations in favour of 
the donor or the person concerned in the stipulation.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  140 
 (2) If the property given has been destroyed, or if the donee has disposed of i t, the donor 
shall be entitled to recover the value thereof at the time of the disposition or destruction.  
  
Article (619 ) 
The donor must not be a person restricted as to the gifts he gives, and the donee must not be 
an enemy.  An enemy shall mean a non- Muslim being a subject of a non Muslim state 
between which and the Muslims a state of declared or actual war exists, and in which peace 
has not been declared.  
  
Article (620 ) 
A gift made by an obligor whose liabilities exceed his assets shall be valid, but dependent 
upon the consent of the obligee.  
  
Article (621 ) 
If a person pledges a thing against an obligation due by him and then gives that thing to a third party other than the pledgee, and the pledgee consents to the gift thereof to the third 
party, the g ift shall be valid and the obligation shall remain without the pledge, 
notwithstanding that the pledgor is insolvent, and if the pledgee does not consent to the gift 
of the property pledged to the third party, and the pledgor is insolvent, the gift shall be void, 
and if the pledgor is solvent, the gift shall be valid if the debt is immediately payable to the 
pledgee or if he gives sufficient pledge in its stead.  
  
Article (622 ) 
If property pledged is given to a person other than  the pledgee and the donor dies before the 
pledge is released, the possession by the pledgee of such pledge shall not, after the gift 
thereof, be a possession on the account of the pledgee, and the gift shall be void.  
  
Article (623 ) 
A gift shall be void i f there is a debt exceeding the assets of the donor prior to (the donee  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  141 
 coming into) possession of the property given, notwithstanding that the debt arises after the 
gift is made.  
  
Article (624 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible to make a gift of a tree and to exclude the fruit thereof for one 
year or more on condition that the donee shall irrigate and serve the same for that period, 
and such a gift must be cancelled if made.  
(2) If a gift is cancelled, the donee must return the tree to the donor if it is st ill in its original 
condition.  
(3) If the condition of the tree has changed, the donee must pay the value thereof as at the 
time he came into possession of it, and it shall become his property as from that date, and in 
that event he shall have a right of r ecourse against the donor for the equivalent of the fruit 
he has taken from it if he knows the amount thereof, or the value thereof if he does not 
know the amount thereof.  
  
Article (625 ) 
If a person gives a thing to another and then, before that other has possession of it, gives it to 
a second donee and the second donee takes possession of it before the first, then the second 
donee shall be regarded as the true donee, and the donor shall not be obliged to pay the 
value thereof to the first donee.  
  
Article (626 ) 
A gift of goods bailed to a bailee or a gift of property lent to a borrower shall be void if either 
the bailee or the borrower refuses except after the death of the donor whether he knows of the gift after the death of the donor or prior to his deat h. 
   
Article (627 ) 
If goods lent are given to a person other than the borrower, or if goods bailed are given to a 
person other than the bailee, and the donor dies prior to the expiration of the period of the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  142 
 loan or before the return of the goods bailed, the possession of the borrower of the goods 
lent or of the bailee of goods bailed shall be regarded as possession in favour of the donee, 
and the gift shall be perfected if the donor bears witness thereto, and if he does not so bear witness, the possession of each of them shall be regarded as being possession in favour of 
the donor, and the gift shall be void.  
  
Article (628 ) 
(1) A gift of a minor or an imbecile otherwise than for consideration shall be void.  
(2) The guardian of a person under a restriction  may not make a gift of any of the property of 
the person under the restriction unless he is his father, and the gift is for consideration.  
  
Article (629 ) 
If property on hire is given to a person other than the hirer and the donor then dies before the expiration of the hire period, the possession of the hirer after the gift shall not be the 
possession of the donee unless the donor has also made a gift of the rental to the donee 
before receiving it from the hirer, in which event the possession of the hirer shall be the 
possession of the donee.  
  
Article (630 ) 
If one of two spouses gives property to the other in such a way that they necessarily share 
the possession thereof, or if a wife gives the house which is the residence of them both to 
the husband, the p erfection of the gift shall not depend on the independent possession of 
the donee of the property given, but if one of them gives a thing to the other which is such that they do not necessarily share possession thereof or if a husband gives to his wife the  
house which is the residence of them both, the gift will only be perfected by the 
independent possession by the donee of the property given.  
  
Article (631 ) 
(1) The consideration stipulated for a gift must be known, otherwise either of the parties  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  143 
 may can cel the contract even after taking delivery of the property given, unless they have 
agreed to determine the consideration prior to the cancellation.  
(2) If the property given is destroyed or is disposed of by the donee prior to the cancellation, 
he must return the value thereof as at the date he received it.  
  
Article (632 ) 
Neither a promise to make a gift nor a gift of future property shall be valid.  
  
Article (633 ) 
If one of the parties to the gift dies or becomes bankrupt prior to delivery of the propert y 
given, the gift shall be void notwithstanding (sic: possibly should be "if") that it was made 
without consideration.  
  
Article (634 ) 
(1) The acceptance of property given by way of a gift shall be valid after the death of the donor if the property was rec eived in order to enable the donee to consider whether to 
accept it as a gift or not, and he does accept it after the death of the donor.  
(2) Likewise the receipt of property given after the death of the donor shall be valid if the 
donee attempted to take possession of it during the lifetime of the donor but was unable to 
do so until after his death.  
  
Article (635 ) 
The provisions relating to testamentary dispositions shall apply to gifts made during a terminal illness.  
  
Article (636 ) 
The effectiveness of a contract of gift shall be dependent upon any procedure required by 
law for the transfer of ownership over such property, and it shall be permissible for either of 
the parties to the contract to complete the necessary steps.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  144 
 Part 2 : Effects of a gift 
1-  In relation to the donor  
Article (637 ) 
The donor shall be obliged to deliver the property given to the donee, and the provisions for 
the delivery of goods sold shall apply thereto.  
 
Article (638 ) 
The donor shall not be liable for any third party right over  the property given in the hands of 
the donee if the gift is given otherwise than for consideration, but he shall be liable for any loss sustained by the donee through such third party right if he deliberately concealed the fact of there being such a right , but if the gift was for consideration, he shall only be liable for 
the existence of a third party right to the extent of the consideration passing from the donee unless a contrary agreement has been made.  
  
Article (639 ) 
If a third party right over the property given arises after it has been destroyed in the hands of the donee and the third party having the right elects to exercise a recourse against the donee 
for compensation, the latter shall have a claim against the donor to the extent that he is 
liable to the third party.  
  
Article (640 ) 
If there is a third party right in the property given and the donee has added to the value of the property in such a way that the increase cannot be separated without causing damage, 
then the third party having the right may only recover the property after paying the value of 
the increase. 
  
Article (641 ) 
A donor is not liable for latent defects in the property given, notwithstanding that he may 
have deliberately concealed the same, unless the gift was for consideration.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  145 
 2- In relation to the donee  
Article (642 ) 
The donee must provide such consideration as the donor has stipulated, whether the 
consideration is to be given to the donor or to another person.  
  
Article (643 ) 
If the consideration for a gift is payment of a debt owed by the donor, then the donee shall 
be bound only to pay the debt as it was at the time of the gift, unless a contrary agreement is 
made.  
 
Article (644 ) 
If the property given is encumbered with an obligation for the payment of a debt owed by the donor or by a third party, the donee shall be obliged to pay such debt unless a contrary 
agreement is made.  
  
Article (645 ) 
The costs of a contract of gift and the  expenses of delivery of the property given and transfer 
thereof shall be borne by the donee unless a contrary agreement is made.  
  
Article (646 ) 
(1) The donor may revoke the gift without the consent of the donee prior to possession thereof being taken.  
(2) He may also revoke the gift after possession is taken if the donee agrees, and if he does 
not agree it shall be permissible for the donor to apply to the judge for the cancellation of 
the gift and the revocation thereof if such application is based on an  acceptable cause, 
unless there is any obstacle to the revocation.  
 
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  146 
 Article (647 ) 
The following shall be regarded as acceptable causes for the cancellation and revocation of a 
gift:  
(a) if the donor becomes unable to provide the means of livelihood for himself at a level 
appropriate to his standing, or if he becomes unable to support other people in the manner 
required by law;  
(b) if a child is born to the donor after the gift is made, and the child remains alive until the 
revocation of the gift, or if he has a child whom he believes to be dead at the time of the gift 
and it subsequently transpires that he is alive; or  
(c) an unjustified breach by the donee of his obligations as stipul ated in the contract, or a 
breach by him of his obligations towards the donor or one of his relatives, in the event that 
such breach is a gross dereliction on his part.  
  
Article (648 ) 
If the donee deliberately and unjustifiably kills the donor, his heirs shall have a right to annul 
the gift.  
  
Article (649 ) 
The following matters shall be deemed to be obstacles to the revocation of a gift:  
(a) if the gift is from eithe r of two spouses to the other, or to a person within the prohibited 
degree of consanguinity, unless the gift amounts to unjustified favouritism among those persons;  
(b) if the donee disposes of the property given in such a way as to transfer the ownership thereof, but if the disposition relates to part only of the property given, it shall be permissible for the donor to revoke the gift of the balance;  
(c) if there is a substantial increase in the property given and that increase forms part of it, 
which incr eases the value thereof, or if the donee alters the property given in such a manner 
as to alter its nature;  
(d) if one of the parties to the contract dies after possession of the property given has passed;  
(e) if the property given is destroyed in the hands of the donee, but if the destruction is  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  147 
 partial, it shall be permissible to revoke the gift of the balance;  
(f) if the gift was for consideration;  
(g) if the gift was by way of charitable donation, or to a charitable organisation; or  
(h) if a creditor ma kes a gift of the debt to the debtor.  
  
Article (650 ) 
(1) The revocation of a gift, whether by consent or by order of the court, shall be regarded as 
annulling the effects of the contract.  
(2) The donee shall not be obliged to return the fruits (of the property given) save from the date of the revocation by consent or from the date of a court order in that behalf, and he 
may recover expenses necessarily incurred, and so far as concerns other expenses, he may 
only recover such as have increased the value of the property given.  
  
Article (651 ) 
(1) If the donor recovers the property given otherwise than by consent or order of the court, 
he shall be liable for the destruction thereof, whatever the cause.  
(2) If the court orders the revocation of the gift, and th e property is destroyed in the hands of 
the donee after he has given notice to deliver it up, the donee shall be liable for the destruction thereof, whatever the cause.  
 
Article (652 ) 
It shall be permissible for a father to recover from his child what he h as given him, and it 
shall also be permissible for a mother to recover from her child what she has given to him if the child is not an orphan, but if he is an orphan then she may not recover the property from him notwithstanding that he may have become an orphan after the gift was made.  
  
Article (653 ) 
The right of either parent to recover what he has given to his child shall lapse in the following circumstances:   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  148 
 (a) if the property given itself has altered, or if the donee has disposed of it in such a way as 
to relinquish ownership thereof;  
(b) if a financial transaction has taken place with the donee as a result of the gift, and the 
effect of the revocation of the gift would be to cause harm to the donee or to the third party; 
or 
(c) if either the donee or  the donor becomes ill so that his life is feared for after making the 
gift, but if the illness ceases, each of the parents shall regain his right to recover what he has 
given to his child.  
  
Chapter Three : Companies  
Part 1: Companies Generally  
(1) General provisions  
Article (654 ) 
A company is a contract whereby two or more persons are bound each to participate in a 
financial project by providing a share of property or work for the exploitation of that project and the division of any profit or loss which ma y arise thereout.  
  
Article (655 ) 
(1) A company shall be regarded as a legal person immediately upon formation.  
(2) The legal personality may not be relied upon as against third parties until after 
completion of the procedures for registration and publicat ion laid down by law.  
(3) Third parties may, however, rely on such legal personality despite the fact that the procedures referred to have not been completed.  
  
2- Elements of a company  
Article (656 ) 
(1) The company contract must be in writing.  
(2) If the contract is not in writing, it shall not affect the rights of third parties, and so far as 
concerns the partners themselves, the contract shall be deemed to be valid unless one of  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  149 
 them requires that it should be regarded as being invalid, and the same shal l apply to the 
contract as from the date of bringing a claim.  
  
Article (657 ) 
(1) The capital of the company must be cash or other like property which may be dealt in, 
and if it is not in cash the value thereof must be assessed.  
(2) It shall be permissible for the shares of the partners to be equal or diverse, and it shall not 
be permissible for a debt owed by a third party to constitute a share in the capital of the 
company.  
  
Article (658 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for the sha re of a partner in the company to be a right of property 
or right to derive a benefit or any other right in specie, and the provisions relating to sale 
shall apply thereto in connection with the liability therefor if it is lost or there is a third party 
right over it or if any defect or shortcoming becomes apparent therein.  
(2) If the share is no more than a right to derive benefit from property, the provisions relating to hire shall apply thereto.  
(Tr: The word translated as "hire" embraces leases of prope rty, hire of chattels and animals, 
and engagement of persons to work).  
(3) If the share is represented by work, the partner must carry out the services which he has 
undertaken to perform in a contract.  
  
Article (659 ) 
(1) The profits shall be distributed a s stipulated in the contract.  
(2) If the company contract does not state the share of each of the partners in the profits, 
they shall be distributed in accordance with the share of each of them in the capital.  
(3) Losses shall be distributed among the part ners in proportion to the share of each of them 
in the capital of the company, and every provision to the contrary shall be void.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  150 
 Article (660 ) 
If the partners agree that the share of any of them in the profits should be a fixed sum of 
money, that condi tion shall be void, and the profits shall be distributed in accordance with 
the share of each of them in the capital.  
  
Article (661 ) 
If the share of a partner is limited to his work, his portion of the profits shall be assessed in 
accordance with the benefit derived by the company from such work, and if in addition to work the partner provides cash or any other thing, he shall have one share in respect of his 
work and another share in respect of what he has provided in addition to the work.  
  
Article (662 ) 
If an agreement is made in the contract that one of the partners should not benefit by the 
company's profits, or that he should not bear any of its losses, the company contract shall be void.  
 
3- The management of the company  
Article (663 ) 
(1) Each partner shall be regarded as an agent for the remaining partners in his carrying out of the business of the company and in so acting as to bring about the aims for which the company was established, unless there is a contrary provision or agreemen t. 
(2) Each partner shall be regarded as a trustee for the property of the company in his 
possession.  
  
Article (664 ) 
(1) If it is agreed in the company contract that one of the partners should be deputed to 
represent the company and manage its affairs, he  alone shall have charge of such acts as are 
embraced within that deputisation and all necessary incidents thereof.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  151 
 (2) If more than one partner is deputed and neither of them is permitted to act singly, they 
must act jointly save in such matters as do not require consultation as to the views of the 
others or in an urgent matter delay in dealing with which would cause damage to the 
company.  
(3) It shall not be permissible to dismiss a person whom it has been agreed to depute in the 
company contract nor to i mpose restrictions on the powers so granted without justification.  
  
Article (665 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible to appoint a manager of the company from among the partners or 
other persons with or without remuneration.  
(2) The manager may act within the lim its of the purposes of the company as entrusted to 
him, but provided that in so acting he abides by the provisions of the contract or, in the absence thereof, within the limits of custom.  
(3) If the manager acts outside the scope of his authority, he shall  be liable for any loss 
sustained by the company as a result of his action.  
  
Article (666 ) 
(1) There may be more than one manager of the company.  
(2) In the event that there is more than one manager, the powers of each of them shall be 
specified.  
(3) It shall be permissible to dismiss them or one of them in the same manner in which he 
was appointed.  
  
Article (667 ) 
It shall not be permissible for a person deputed to manage the company or appointed as a 
manager of it to dismiss himself or to resign at such a time as would cause the company 
damage.  
  
Article (668 ) 
The partners who are not managers shall not have a right of management, but they may  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  152 
 themselves inspect the books and papers of the company.  
 
4- The effects of a company  
Article (669 ) 
(1) A partner who has the right to organise the interests of the company shall be obliged in 
so doing to act with such care as he would exercise in the organisation of his own private 
interests unless he is appointed to work for a salary, and he may not fall bel ow the standard 
of care of the reasonable man.  
(2) He shall also be obliged to refrain from any act which may cause damage to the company 
or which is contrary to the purpose for which the company was established.  
  
Article (670 ) 
It shall not be permissible for a partner to retain for himself any property of the company, 
and if he does so he shall be liable in respect of any damage sustained by the company by 
virtue of such retention.  
  
Article (671 ) 
(1) If the company owes a debt connected with the objects of the company and the assets of 
the company are insufficient to discharge it, the partners shall be liable in their own personal property for the balance of the debt up to the amount of the share of each of them in the 
losses made by the company.  
(2) If i t is stipulated that the partners should be jointly liable in the company contract, they 
shall all be responsible for the debt by way of joint liability.  
  
Article (672 ) 
(1) If one of the partners is indebted to another in a person al debt, his creditor may not 
recover his right out of the share in the capital owned by that partner prior to the liquidation, 
but it shall be permissible for him to recover it out of the profits due to the debtor.  
(2) If the company contract provides for  joint liability as between the partners, then such  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  153 
 creditor may recover his debt from the capital of the company after it is liquidated.  
 
5- The termination of a company  
Article (673 ) 
A company shall terminate for any of the following reasons: ‑ 
(a) the expiry of the period of the company or the completion of the work for which it was 
established;  
(b) the loss of all of the capital or the capital of one of the partners prior to his making it 
available;  
(c) the death, insanity, bankruptcy, insolve ncy, being placed under legal restriction, or 
withdrawal of one of the partners;  
(d) the unanimous decision of the partners to dissolve the company; and  
(e) the making of a judicial order for the dissolution of the company.  
  
Article (674 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible, prior to the expiration of the period laid down, for the company to extend it for a further fixed period, by way of continuing the company.  
(2) If the period laid down for the company expires or if the work for which the company 
was establishe d is completed and then the partners continue with their operations, that shall 
be regarded as an implied extension of the company on a year by year basis under the same conditions.  
(3) It shall be permissible for the creditor of one of the partners to obj ect to the extension of 
the company, and the effect of such objection will be to suspend the effect of the extension with regard to him.  
  
Article (675 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for an agreement to be made that if one of the partners dies the company sh all continue with his heirs even if minor, and in that event the heirs shall take 
the place of the deceased after agreement being made by them or by the guardian of any of  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  154 
 them who are under a disability, without prejudice to the conditions and provisions laid 
down by law.  
(2) It shall likewise be permissible for an agreement to be made to continue the company as 
between the remainder of the partners if one of them dies or is placed under a legal 
restriction or becomes bankrupt or withdraws, and in those ev ents such partner or his heirs 
shall be entitled only to his share in the assets of the company.  Such share shall be assessed 
on the basis of the value thereof on the date on which the event resulting in his departure 
from the company took place, and it s hall be paid in cash.  He shall not be entitled to any 
share in any new rights arising thereafter save to the extent that those rights arose out of 
operations occurring prior to such event.  
  
Article (676 ) 
It shall be permissible for the court to order that the company be dissolved upon the 
application of any of the partners on the grounds that a partner has not done that which he 
has undertaken to do or by reason of his having caused the company fundamental  damage 
by virtue of his actions in the affairs thereof.  
  
Article (677 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for a majority of the partners to apply for a judicial order 
dismissing any partner if they adduce serious reasons therefor justifying the dismissal. 
(2) I t shall likewise be permissible for any partner to apply for a judicial order that he cease 
to be a partner in the company if the company is of limited duration, and he provides 
reasonable grounds for such application.  
(3) In both of the foregoing events t he provisions of Article 675 (2) shall apply to the share 
of the dismissed or withdrawing partner, and such share shall be assessed in accordance with its value on the date the claim was brought.  
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  155 
 6- The liquidation and division of (assets of) companies  
Article (678 ) 
The assets of a company shall be liquidated and distributed in such manner as the partners 
agree, and if they do not agree it shall be permissible for any person having an interest to 
apply to the court for an order appointing one or more liquidators to carry out the 
liquidation and distribution.  
  
Article (679 ) 
(1) The company shall retain its legal personality to the extent necessary for the liquidation.  
(2) The manager or managers of the company shall be regarded as liquidators vis -à-vis third 
parties until the liquidator is appointed.  
  
Article (680 ) 
The liquidator shall carry out all the acts of liquidation including taking an inventory of the assets of the company, getting in its rights, paying its debts, and selling its assets until the 
property is ready for distrib ­ution, having regard in all of the foregoing to the restrictions 
laid down in the order appointing him, and he may not do any act not required by the 
liquidation.  
  
Article (681 ) 
The rules relating to the distribution of property in co- ownership shall be followed in 
distributing companies.  
  
Article (682 ) 
(1) The property of the company shall be divided among the partners after settling the rights of creditors and retaining monies for the payment of debts not yet due or disputed debts, as 
well as the costs arising out of the liquidation.  
(2) There shall be allocated to each partner a sum of money proportionate to his share in the 
capital.  Such person shall also receive profits and bear losses in the proportion agreed or  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  156 
 laid down in the provisions of this Law.  
  
Part  2: Certain types of companies  
1- Companies to perform work  
Article (683 ) 
A business company is a contract whereby two or more persons agree to be bound to carry 
out wor k and to be liable therefor to third parties against payment of consideration, whether 
they share equally or unequally in the distribution of the work, and provided that the work must be of a single nature and inseparable.  
  
Article (684 ) 
(1) Each of the p artners shall be obliged to perform the work which any of them has 
accepted and undertaken to do.  
(2) Each of them shall have the right to receive the consideration agreed, and the customer shall be discharged of liability by making payment to any of them.  
  
Article (685 ) 
A partner shall not be personally obliged to carry out work which he has himself accepted, and he may give it to another partner or to a person other than one of his partners unless the customer has stipulated that he should perform it himself.  
  
Article (686 ) 
(1) The profits shall be divided among the partners in the manner agreed.  
(2) It shall be permissible for there to be an unequal distribution of profits notwithstanding that it is stipulated that there should be an equal division of work.  
(3) Each of them shall be entitled to his share of the profit, notwithstanding that, with a n 
acceptable excuse, he has not worked.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  157 
 Article (687 ) 
Partners shall be jointly liable in the performance of the work.  
  
Article (688 ) 
If a thing which is to be worked on is destroyed or damaged by the act of one of the partners, 
the customer may hold  whichever partner he wishes liable in his property.  The loss shall be 
divided among the partners to the extent of the liability of each as between themselves.  
  
Article (689 ) 
It shall be permissible in respect of a business company for the place of work to be provided 
by some of the partners, and the appliances and equipment to be provided by others, and it likewise shall be permissible for the place of business and the equipment and appliances to 
be supplied by some of them, and for the work to be perfor med by the others.  
  
Article (690 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for the activities of a business company to be the carriage and 
transportation of goods, and no regard shall be had to the different types of means of 
transport owned by each partner as to type or capacity or carriage, so long as each partner is 
liable for the work.  
(2) Provided that if the company is formed not for the purpose of accepting work but for the hiring out of means of transport as such and the division of the hire money, the company 
contract shall be invalid and the hire money on each separate conveyance shall belong to 
the owner thereof, and any person who has assisted in collecting and transporting shall 
receive a quantum meruit remuneration.  
 
2- Speculative venture partnerships  
Article (691 ) 
(1) A speculative venture partnership is a contract whereby two or more persons agree to purchase property on credit in accordance with the standing each of them has, then to sell it,  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  158 
 and to participate in the profits.  
(2) The partners shall be  liable for the price of the property purchased each according to his 
share in it, whether they carry out the purchase jointly or singly. 
  
Article (692 ) 
The profit and loss shall be distributed between the partners in the proportion of the liability 
of ea ch of them for the property which they have purchased on credit, unless a contrary 
agreement is made.  
  
3- Mudaraba companies (where one partner places assets at the disposal of 
another to make a profit)  
Article (693 ) 
A Mudaraba is a contract whereby the person owning property puts in the capital, and the 
mudarib puts in effort or work, with a view to making a profit.  
  
Article (694 ) 
The following conditions must be satisfied for a mudaraba to be valid:  
(1) The owner of the capital must be competent to gra nt power of attorney, and the mudarib 
competent to hold one.  
(2) The capital must be known, and such as may be properly dealt in.  
(3) The capital must not be a debt or a deposit with the owner of the capital owed by the 
mudarib.  
(4) The capital must be del ivered to the mudarib.  
(5) The share of each of the contracting profits in the parties must be an ascertained and 
co-owned part.  
  
Article (695 ) 
(1) After the capital has been delivered to him, the mudarib shall have the power to make 
dispositions of it on  behalf of the owner thereof.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  159 
 (2) The mudarib shall be trustee of the capital, and a partner in the profits.  
  
Article (696 ) 
It shall not be permissible to stipulate that the mudarib shall be liable for the capital if it is 
lost or wasted through no wrongf ul act on his part.  
  
Article (697 ) 
It shall be permissible for a mudaraba to be general and absolute or specific and limited as to time, place, type of trade or by any other restrictive conditions.  
 
Article (698 ) 
(1) If the contract of mudaraba is absolut e, the mudarib shall be deemed to have 
authorisation to work and make dispositions of the capital in the affairs of the mudaraba and ancillary matters in accordance with the prevailing custom in that regard.  
(2) It shall not be permissible for the mudarib to mix the capital in the mudaraba with his 
own property nor to give it to another person by way of mudaraba unless there is a custom 
to the contrary, or unless the owner of the capital has authorised the mudarib to use it as he 
thinks fit.  
(3) Likewise it  shall not be permissible for him to make a gift of or to lend the capital in the 
mudaraba, nor to raise a loan whereby the debt becomes greater than the amount of the capital, save by the express permission of the owner of the capital.  
  
Article (699 ) 
If the owner of the capital restricts the mudaraba by certain conditions, those must be 
observed, and if the mudarib exceeds the permitted limits in his dispositions, the profit shall 
be distributed as agreed between the partners, and the loss shall fall on t he mudarib.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  160 
 Article (700 ) 
If the mudarib shares with another mudarib in the capital in the mudaraba, or if he sells part 
of the goods on credit without the consent of the owner of the capital, the first mudarib shall 
be liable for any diminution in or loss of the capital in the mudaraba in either event.  
  
Article (701 ) 
If the mudarib pays out money in the mudaraba without the consent of the owner of the capital to a third party to make use of it, the first mudarib shall be liable for any diminution in o r loss of it, and the second mudarib shall not be liable.  If a profit is made, the first 
mudarib shall not have any of it, but the second mudarib shall have part of the profit to which he is entitled if it is equal to the part stipulated in favour of the first mudarib, and if it 
is less than it the excess shall belong to the owner of the capital, and not to either of the first mudarib or the second.  
  
Article (702 ) 
If the mudarib trades with the property of the mudaraba and makes a loss, and pays the balance thereof without the consent of the owner of the capital to another operator to use it 
by way of mudaraba and he makes a profit, the owner of the capital shall have the whole of 
his capital and his share of the profit in the hands of the second mudarib b y way of capital 
and profit, and the second mudarib shall have the right of recourse against the first mudarib 
for the balance of his share in the profit in the event that he was unaware that the first 
mudarib was exceeding his authority, or of the loss he had made, and if he was aware of the 
excess of authority or of the loss, he shall not be entitled to have any recourse against him.  
  
Article (703 ) 
(1) Both the mudarib and the owner of the capital must share in the profits in the proportion agreed in the contract, and if no division of profits has been specified between them then 
the division shall be in accordance with custom, and in the absence of any custom the division shall be equal.  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  161 
 (2) If the mudarib is authorised to mix his property with the capit al in the mudaraba, the 
profits shall be shared in proportion to the capital, the mudarib shall take the profit from his 
capital, and the profits of the capital in the mudaraba shall be shared between the two contracting parties in the manner provided for in the foregoing paragraph.  
  
Article (704 ) 
(1) The owner of the capital shall alone bear any loss, and any provision to the contrary shall 
be void.  
(2) If any of the capital in the mudaraba is lost, that shall be accounted for out of the profits, 
and if the loss exceeds the profits the balance shall be accounted for out of the capital, and 
the mudarib shall not be liable therefor.  
  
Article (705 ) 
The mudaraba shall terminate in the following circumstances:  
(1) If the contract is cancelled by either of the contracting parties.  
(2) If the owner of the capital dismisses the mudarib, and the mudarib may not, after 
becoming aware of his dismissal, dispose of the property in the mudaraba if it is money, and if it is not money, it shall be permissible for the muda rib to convert it into money.  
(3) If the expiry of the period of the mudaraba was expressed to continue until a specified time.  
(4) If one of the contracting parties dies or becomes totally insane or comes under a 
restriction.  
  
Article (706 ) 
If either of the contracting parties terminates the mudaraba prior to the due time, it shall be 
permissible for the injured party to have a recourse against the other for any loss suffered by him to be made good.  
  
Article (707 ) 
(1) If the mudarib dies and the capital in the mudaraba is unknown, the right of the owner of  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  162 
 the capital shall be a debt against the estate.  
(2) If, prior to his death, the mudarib specifies the capital, and that which he has specified is 
in the estate, the owner of the capital shall have the e xclusive right thereto in priority over 
ordinary creditors.  
  
Article (708 ) 
The general provisions relating to companies shall apply to business companies, 
partnerships of persons and mudaraba in all matters in which the special provisions relating 
thereto  do not conflict with them.  
  
Article (709 ) 
The rules set out in this Part shall be without prejudice to the provisions of any special laws. 
 
Chapter Four : Loans  
Article (710 ) 
A loan is the granting of ownership of property or fungible things to another wi th the 
condition that that other should return its like in amount, kind and description to the lender upon the expiry of the period of the loan.  
  
Article (711 ) 
The borrower shall obtain full ownership of th e property lent under the contract even if he 
does not take possession of it from the lender and he may obtain an order in respect of it if 
the lender refuses to deliver it to him.  The loan shall not become void if any matter arises 
which prevents the bor rower from dealing with the property before the borrower takes 
possession of it.  
 
Article (712 ) 
(1) The lender must be a person having the capacity to make gifts.  
(2) A guardian or tutor may not lend to or borrow from the person under his guardianship  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  163 
 save  with the consent of the court.  
  
Article (713 ) 
Property borrowed must be fungible and consumable.  
  
Article (714 ) 
If the contract of loan provides for a benefit in excess of the essence of the contract 
otherwise than a guarantee of the rights of the lende r, such provision shall be void but the 
contract shall be valid.  
  
Article (715 ) 
A condition of mortgage (or pledge) or surety in a loan shall be valid.  
  
Article (716 ) 
If third party rights are subsisting (or arise) in the property lent while it is in the  hands of the 
borrower, his obligation to return its like shall cease and he shall have a recourse against the 
lender for indemnity for any loss sustained by him by reason of such third party right if (the 
lender) was acting in bad faith.  
  
Article (717 ) 
If a latent defect appears in the property borrowed, the lender shall only be obliged to return 
its value with that defect. 
  
Article (718 ) 
(1) If the loan has a fixed or usual term, the borrower must return the property to the lender 
upon the expiry of th at period even if no benefit would accrue to him thereby.  
(2) If there is no term for the loan, the borrower will only be obliged to return the property upon the expiry of such period as enables him to have the usual benefit of such property.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  164 
 Article (719 ) 
(1) The borrower shall be bound to return the like of what he has borrowed in amount, type 
and description upon the expiry of the period of the loan, notwithstanding any difference 
occurring in the value of the property, at the time and place agreed.  
(2) If it is impossible to return the (exact) equivalent of the property borrowed, the right of 
the lender shall be transferred to its value at the time possession is taken of it.  
 
Article (720 ) 
If a number of persons borrow property and one of them takes possession of it with the 
consent of the others, then none of them may claim against him save for the amount of his 
share of that which the one received.  
 
Article (721 ) 
(1) The borrower must make satisfaction of the loan at the place where the loan was made unless there is an express or implied agreement to the contrary.  
(2) If it has been agreed that the loan should be satisfied in another place where the value of 
the property borrowed is different from the value in the place it was lent, the right of the 
lender shall be transferred to the value at the place the loan was made.  
  
Chapter Five : Accords (settlement of disputes)  
Article (722 ) 
An accord is a contract whereby a dispute is removed and litigation between the two composing parties ceases by mutual c onsent.  
  
Article (723 ) 
(1) The parties to an accord must be competent to make dispositions for consideration in respect of the rights covered by the contract of accord.  
(2) If the accord involves the waiver of any right, that competence must in clude the capacity 
to make gifts.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  165 
 Article (724 ) 
The accord of a minor of the age of discretion or of an idiot authorised to make dispositions 
shall be valid if there is no evident damage to them therein, and the same applies to accords 
made by guardians an d tutors, having regard to the provisions of the special laws.  
  
Article (725 ) 
The matt er in respect of which the accord is made must be such that an alternative may be 
taken in consideration of it, even if it is not property, and must be ascertained if it involves delivery and receipt.  
  
Article (726 ) 
(1) The consideration for the accord mu st be ascertained if it requires delivery and receipt.  
(2) If the consideration for the accord is property or a benefit owned by a third party, the validity of the accord shall depend on the consent of that third party.  
  
Article (727 ) 
(1) An accord in res pect of rights shall be valid whether the defendant acknowledges them, 
denies them, or is silent and makes no acknowledgement or denial.  
(2) If an accord takes place in the case of an agreement for a specific consideration to be 
handed over it shall have the status of a sale, and in the case of a benefit (right of use) it shall 
have the status of a (contract of) hire. 
(3) If an accord is made by way of denial or silence that shall be regarded as a commutative 
contract with regard to the claimant, and a waiv er of the oath and a cessation of the 
litigation with regard to the defendant.  
  
Article (728 ) 
If a person makes an accord for part of the thing claimed or a certain amount of that which 
he claims as against the other, his right to cl aim the balance shall lapse.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  166 
 Article (729 ) 
(1) If two persons reach an accord in a case where each of them claims property in the 
possession of the other, on the basis that each may keep the property in his possession, the 
accord shall have the status of a barter transaction, and the validity thereof shall not depend 
on knowledge of (the amount of) the consideration.  
(2) Accords shall be governed by the provisions governing contracts most similar thereto in 
nature as far as concerns the validity and effec ts thereof.  
  
Article (730 ) 
(1) An accord shall result in the transfer of the rights of the compounding party to the 
consideration agreed, and the lapse of his right which was the subject matter of the dispute.  
(2) An accord shall be binding upon both part ies to it, and it shall not be permissible for 
either of them or their heirs to resile from it thereafter.  
 
Article (731 ) 
The effects of an accord shall be restricted to the rights with which it deals and the 
determination of the dispute thereover, to the exclusion of other matters.  
  
Article (732 ) 
It shall be permissible for the parties to an accord to abrogate it by mutual consent if it is made by way of commutative contract, but it shall not be permissible to abrogate it if it 
involves the waiver of cert ain rights.  
  
Article (733 ) 
It shall not be permissible to enter into an accord if it includes any of the following 
impediments: ‑ 
(1) The annulment of a debt by another debt.  
(2) the sale of food by way of commutative contract prior to delivery.  
(3) The de ferred exchange of gold against silver and vice versa.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  167 
 (4) Riba al- nasi'a (usurious interest in consideration of the deferment of the payment of a 
debt).  
(5) Substituting part of a deferred debt owed by a debtor in consideration of advancing the 
date of pa yment.  
(6) Reducing the amount of a guarantee on a deferred debt owed by a debtor in 
consideration of accelerated payment with an increase.  
(7) A loan involving a benefit.  
  
Article (734 ) 
An aggrieved party of the two compounding parties may, upon denial, set aside the accord 
in the following circumstances:  
(1) If the party acting unfairly acknowledges his unfair treatment of the other after the 
accord is made.  
(2) If facts become known to the aggrieved party after the accord was made and he swears that he was unaware of such facts at the time the accord was made.  
(3) If there was evidence not available to such person which could not have been made 
available during the currency of the proceedings and he testifies upon making the accord 
that he will adduce th at evidence upon its becoming available.  
  
Article (735 ) 
If an accord is made upon denial because of the claimant not having a document 
establishing the right compounded, he may set aside the accord if he thereafter finds su ch 
document, but if he has claimed he had such a document and the defendant has requested 
him to produce it in order for him to secure his right as evidenced thereby and he then 
alleges that it has been lost and makes an accord, he may not set aside the ac cord thereafter 
if he finds the document.  
  
Article (736 ) 
If one of several heirs makes an accord with the debtor of their legator in respect of a debt, 
then the other heirs may either enter into the same accord, or refrain from doing so and  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  168 
 claim their ri ghts against the debtor or make an accord with him.  
  
Article (737 ) 
One of several heirs may make an accord in respect of his part of the inheritance by way of 
part of the legacy provided that the part compounded is available if he is making an accord 
in respect of an amount equal to or less than his portion, or the whole of the estate is 
available if he is making an accord in respect of an amount greater than his portion.  
  
Article (738 ) 
(1) If one of two (or more) creditors makes an accord with their debtor, the other creditor may refrain from entering into that same accord with him and may have recourse against 
the debtor for his share, and if he proves unable to pay, he shall have no ri ght of recourse 
against his co -creditor.  
(2) The other creditor may enter with his co -creditor who made the accord into that same 
accord if he has not refused to make an accord, and in that event he shall have a recourse 
against the debtor for the balance of his share and the compounding creditor shall have a 
recourse against the debtor for such money as his co -creditor took from him.  
  
Article (739 ) 
It shall not be permissible to make an accord in respect of such part of merchandise, animals 
or unascertained food as has been consumed by agreeing to the deferred return of a greater 
amount of the same kind, or goods of a different kind, unless the amount agreed to be given 
in satisfaction is goods estimated at that value or less.  
  
Article (740 ) 
In the event that it is impossible to ascertain an unknown, an accord for an ascertained consideration shall be valid if both parties or the debtor alone are in ignorance.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  169 
 Article (741 ) 
Subject to the provisions of Articles 734 and 735, th e accord shall cause the dispute to 
determine finally, and no claim made by the claimant shall be heard thereafter even if he 
adduces evidence of his claim or an earlier admission of what is denied.  
 
Section  Two : Usufructuary (contracts)  
Chapter One : Hire  
Part 1 : Hire in general 
1- Definition of hire  
Article (742 ) 
A hire shall be the conferring by the lessor on the lessee of the right of use intended for the 
thing hired for a specified period in consideration of an ascertained rent.  
 
2- Elements of hire 
Article (743 ) 
In order for there to be a valid hire, both parties must be of full capacity at the time of the contract.  
Article (744 ) 
(1) For a hire to be valid, the lessor or the person acting on his behalf must have the right to dispose of that which he is hiring.  
(2) A hire granted by a voluntary agent (see Article 325 et seq.) shall be dependent upon the 
consent of the person having the right to dispose of the property upon the conditions laid 
down.  
  
Article (745 ) 
The subject matter of a hire shall be the enjoyment of the use of the property, and delivery 
thereof shall be effected by delivering the subject matter of hire.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  170 
 Article (746 ) 
The enjoyment of use contracted for must satisfy the following conditions:  
(a) the benefit must be capable of being enjoyed; and  
(b) it must be sufficiently ascertained for a dispute to be determined.  
 
Article (747 ) 
That from which the enjoyment of use is to be derived must be ascertained either by 
inspection or by reference to t he particular place where it is or by a clear description, 
otherwise the contract shall be void.  
  
Article (748 ) 
(1) The rent must be known by specifying the type and amount thereof if it is money, and by 
specifying the type, description and determination of the extent thereof if it is a non -money 
rent.  
(2) If the rent is unknown, it shall be permissible to cancel the hire, and a fair rent shall be paid in respect of the period up to the cancellation.  
  
Article (749 ) 
The rent may be property, a debt, or a benefit.  
  
Article (750 ) 
The rent shall be due upon the enjoyment of use being derived, or when it becomes capable of being derived.  
  
Article (751 ) 
It shall be permissible to stipulate that the rent be payable immediately, or be deferred or payable in inst alments at specified times.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  171 
 Article (752 ) 
(1) If the time for payment of the rent is not specified in the contract, the rent determined for 
the enjoyment of the use absolutely shall be paid after the enjoyment of use has been 
derived or after it has become capable of being derived.  
(2) With regard  to rent payable in respect of a unit of time, custom shall be followed with 
regard to the time for payment, otherwise the judge shall determine the same upon the 
application of the person having an interest.  
  
Article (753 ) 
Rent shall not be payable in re spect of any period expiring prior to delivery of the thing 
leased unless the lessee is the cause (of non -delivery).  
  
Article (754 ) 
The period of the hire shall commence as at the date agreed in the contract, and if no date is 
specified, then it shall commence as at the date of the contract.  
  
Article (755 ) 
The period of the hire must be ascertained.  
  
Article (756 ) 
If the contract of hire does not specify the period or if it is impossible to prove the period alleged, the hire shall be deemed to have been made for the period specified for the 
payment of the rent and to expire upon the expiration of such period upon the request of 
either of the contracting parties.  
  
Article (757 ) 
If the contract of hire expires and the lessee remains in enjoyment of the thi ng hired with the 
knowledge of the lessor and without any objection from him, the hire shall be deemed to 
have been renewed on the original terms and for a like period.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  172 
 Article (758 ) 
It shall be permissible to stipulate that the hire shall be for a future  period and such contract 
shall be binding unless the thing leased is a waqf (charitable endowment) or the property of 
an orphan, in which event it shall not be permissible for the hire for a future period to commence more than one year from the date of th e contract.  
  
Article (759 ) 
If the period of the hire expires, and it is proved that it is necessary to extend it, it shall be extended for as long as the necessity exists, and provided that the lessee shall pay a fair rent 
therefor.  
  
Article (760 ) 
If the  lessor asks the lessee for a specified increase in the named rent after the expiry of the 
period of the hire, he shall be bound to pay it if the period has expired and he remains in 
possession of the thing hired without objection.  
  
3- Effects of hire  
Article (761 ) 
Each of the two contracting parties shall be obliged to carry out the contents of the contract in such a manner as to achieve the lawful purpose thereof.  
  
Article (762 ) 
If the contract of hire has been validly made, the right of enjoyment of th e thing hired shall 
pass to the lessee.  
  
4- Obligations of the lessor  
a- Delivery of the thing hired  
Article (763 ) 
(1) The lessor must deliver the thing leased together with the appurtenances thereof in such  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  173 
 condition that the intended benefit may be deri ved in full.  
(2) Delivery shall be effected by enabling the lessee to take possession of the thing hired 
without any obstacle to his enjoyment thereof, with him remaining in continuous possession of it until the period of the lease expires.  
 
Article (764 ) 
The lessor may refuse to give delivery of the thing hired until rent payable in advance is paid.  
  
Article (765 ) 
(1) If a contract of hire is made over a specified thing for a lump sum rent and the number of units thereof is referred to without specifying the rent in respect of each unit thereof, and it 
appears that the units are greater or less, the rent shall be that specified in the contract 
without any increase or deduction, and in the event of a shortfall the lessee shall have the option to cancel the contract.  
(2) If the rent for each unit is specified In the contract the lessee shall be obliged to pay the specified rent for excess units, and the lessor shall be obliged to reduce the specified rent for 
any units short, and the lessee shall have the option to cancel the contract in either event.  
(3) Provided that if the amount of the shortfall or excess is slight and does not affect the 
intended enjoyment, then the lessee shall not have the option to cancel.  
  
Article (766)  
The (legal) effects of deliver y of goods sold shall apply to delivery of the thing hired and the 
appurtenances thereof unless the two parties have agreed to the contrary.  
  
b- Maintenance of the thing hired  
Article (767 ) 
(1) The lessor shall be obliged to repair any defect in the thing  hired which has an effect on 
the deriving of the intended enjoyment, and if he does not do so it shall be permissible for 
the lessee to cancel the contract or to obtain leave from the judge authorising him to make 
the repair and to have recourse against t he lessor for his expenditure up to a generally  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  174 
 acceptable level.  
(2) If the defect which the lessor is by custom obliged to make good is a minor matter, or an 
urgent matter which does not admit of delay and the lessee requests him to repair it and he makes delay or it is impossible to contact him, it shall be permissible for the lessee to repair it 
and to deduct his expense up to a generally acceptable level from the rent due.  
  
Article (768 ) 
(1) If, with the consent of the lessor, the lessee constructs bu ildings or makes repairs which 
benefit the thing hired, or if he maintains that thing, he shall have a recourse therefor for his 
expenditure up to a generally acceptable level, notwithstanding that there is no express 
provision that he should have such a r ight of recourse.  
(2) If, however, any new construction the lessee makes enures to his personal benefit, he 
shall have no right recourse against the lessor unless there is an agreement to the contrary.  
  
Article (769 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for th e lessor to prevent the lessee from doing any work which 
results in damage or alteration to the thing hired, and from putting in any equipment or 
appliances which may damage it or reduce the value thereof.  
(2) If the lessee does not refrain from so doing, the lessor shall have the right to apply to the 
judge to cancel the contract and to seek damages for the loss caused to him by such 
wrongful act.  
 
c- Liability for the thing hired  
Article (770 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for the lessor to expose the l essee to anything which may 
disturb his enjoyment during the period of the hire, nor to effect any alteration in the thing 
hired which may prevent use being made thereof or which may prejudice the beneficial use 
contracted for, and if he does so, he shall be liable therefor.  
(2) The liability of the lessor shall not be restricted to acts done by him or those subordinate  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  175 
 to him, but shall extend to any exposure or damage based on a legal cause emanating from 
any other lessee or any other person deriving his right from the lessor.  
  
Article (771 ) 
If the interference results in the lessee being deprived of his use of the thing hired in accordance with the contract, he may require that the contract be cancelled or that the rent 
be reduced, and shall have a claim for damages for the detriment he has suffered.  
  
Article (772 ) 
(1) The lessor shall be liable to the lessee for any defects in the thing hired which prevent or substantially diminish the use made of it, but he shall not be liable for defects which by 
custom fall within the margin of tolerance.  
(2) The lessor shall not be liable for a defect if the lessee was aware thereof at the time the 
contract was made, or if it would have been an easy matter for him to gain knowledge 
thereof.  
  
Article (773 ) 
If as the result of a defect the lessee is prevented from enjoying the thing leased, it shall be 
permissible for him to require that the contract be cancelled or that the rent be reduced, and he shall have a claim for any loss suffered by him.  
  
Article (774 ) 
The p rovisions governing the option for defect in property sold shall apply to any defects in 
property hired in all matters not inconsistent with the nature of hire. 
  
Article (775 ) 
Any agreement purporting to give exemption from liability for any interference or defect shall be void if the lessor has fraudulently concealed the cause of such liability. 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  176 
 5- Obligations of the lessee  
a- The preserve and return the thing hired  
Article (776 ) 
(1) The thing hired shall be regarded as being held in trust by the lessee who shall be liable 
for any diminution, damage or loss arising out of his default or wrongful act.  He must 
exercise the care of the reasonable man in preserving the same.  
(2) If there are several lessees, each of them shall be liable for any damage arisi ng out of his 
wrongful act or default.  
  
Article (777 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for a lessee to exceed in his use of the thing hired the bounds 
of the use agreed in the contract, and if there is no (specific) agreement he shall be bound to 
use it for the purpose for which it is intended, and in the manner dictated by custom.  
(2) If in using the thing he exceeds the agreed bounds or acts in breach of custom, he shall 
be liable for any damage arising out of his act.  
  
Article (778 ) 
(1) It shall not b e permissible for the lessee to effect any alteration to the thing hired without 
the consent of the lessor unless he has a duty to repair the property hired, and provided that he causes no loss to the lessor. 
(2) If the lessee exceeds that duty he must, upon the expiration of the hire, restore the 
property hired to the condition in which it was, and must pay compensation if appropriate, 
all of the above being in the absence of any agreement to the contrary.  
  
Article (779 ) 
(1) The lessee must make the repai rs agreed upon, for which he is obliged by custom to carry 
out.  He must, during the period of the hire, clean the property leased and remove from it 
any accumulated dirt or rubbish, and anything else which by custom he is required to attend 
to.  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  177 
 (2)  During the rental period, he must clean the rented property and remove any dust or 
waste that has accumulated in it and other things that custom requires that he is responsible 
for. 
 
Article (780 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for a lessee to prevent th e lessor from carrying out necessary 
works for the maintenance of the thing hired.  
(2) If those works are such as to disturb the enjoyment of the lessee, he shall have the right 
to cancel the contract unless he continues to enjoy the use until the maintena nce works are 
completed.  
  
Article (781 ) 
(1) If the whole of the enjoyment of the thing leased is lost, the lessee shall not be obliged to 
pay the rent in respect of the period of the loss of enjoyment.  
(2) If the loss of the enjoyment is partial and is such to affect the enjoyment intended, he shall have the right to cancel the contract and the obligation to pay the rent shall lapse as 
from the date of the cancellation.  
(3) If the lessor repairs the thing hired prior to the cancellation the lessee shall be  relieved of 
the obligation to pay rent to the extent of his loss of use, and he shall have no option to 
cancel.  
  
Article (782 ) 
(1) If by any act of the competent authorities it becomes impossible to derive full enjoyment 
from the thing hired through no c ause on the part of the lessee, the lease shall be cancelled 
and the obligation to pay the rent shall cease as from the date of the impossibility arising.  
(2) If the impossibility affects the enjoyment of part of the property hired in such a way as to affe ct the enjoyment intended, the lessee may cancel the contract and his obligation to pay 
the rent shall cease as from the time he notifies the lessor.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  178 
 Article (783 ) 
It shall be permissible for the lessee to cancel the contract in the following circumstan ces: 
(1) if the performance thereof entails evident harm to his person or property or to any of his 
subordinates in the enjoyment of the property hired; or  
(2) if any event occurs which prevents the performance of the contract.  
  
Article (784 ) 
(1) The lessee must return the thing hired to the lessor upon the expiration of the period of the hire in the condition in which he took delivery of it, with the exception of such loss or damage as the property may have suffered through no cause of his.  
(2) If he retains possession of it without right he shall be bound to pay the lessor a fair rent, and he shall be liable for any loss suffered. (3) If the return of the thing hired requires porterage and provisions, the charge for the 
carriage thereof shall be borne by the lessor.  
  
Article (785 ) 
If the lessee has made a new building or planted plants in the thing hired, even with the 
consent of the lessor, the lessor may, upon the expiration of the hire, either require him to demolish the building or remove the plants, or he may take over ownership of the new 
buildings or plants placed there for such value as they would have if removed if the 
destruction or removal thereof would cause harm to the property, and if the demolition or 
removal would not cause harm to the property, the lessor may not require that they remain 
there without the consent of the lessee.  
  
b- Lending and (sub) hiring the thing hired  
Article (786 ) 
The lessee may lend the thing hired or may allow another person to use and enjoy the whole 
or part of it without consideration to the extent that such use does not differ from normal 
use.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  179 
 Article (787 ) 
It shall not be permissible for a lessee to hire the thing hired either in whole or in part to 
another person save with the consent or approbation of the lessor. 
  
Article (788 ) 
In the circumstances provided for in the two foregoing Articles, the lessee sh all be bound by 
the conditions of the contract of hire both as to type and time.  
  
Article (789 ) 
If the lessee hires the thing hired with the consent of the lessor, the new  lessee shall take the 
place of the first lessee in respect of all rights and obligations arising under the first contract.  
  
Article (790 ) 
If the contract of hire made with the first lessee is cancelled or expires, his lessor shall have the right to termi nate the contract made with the second lessee and to recover the thing 
hired.  
  
6- The termination of the hire 
Article (791 ) 
(1) The hire shall terminate in the two following circumstances:  
(a) upon the expiration of the period laid down in the contract un less there is a stipulation 
that it should be renewed automatically; or  
(b) upon the expiry of the right of beneficial use if the lease is granted by a person who has such right, or the person having the reversionary right.  
(2) If the contract of hire expi res and the lessee continues to enjoy the property hired with 
the express or implied consent of the lessor, the contract shall be deemed to be renewed 
upon the original terms.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  180 
 Article (792 ) 
If the lessee uses the thing hired without right after the exp iration of the period of the hire, 
he shall be bound to pay a fair rent in respect of the period of the use, and he shall be liable 
to the lessee over and above that for any harm suffered by the thing hired.  
  
Article (793 ) 
(1) A hire shall not terminate u pon the death of either of the contracting parties.  
(2) However, it shall be permissible for the heirs of the lessee to require the termination of the hire if they establish that the burdens of the hire have, by virtue of the death of their 
legator, become more burdensome than their resources can sustain, or if it is in excess of 
their needs.  
(3) If the hire has been created solely by reason of the occupation of the lessee or for other 
considerations pertaining to his person, and he then dies, it shall be p ermissible for his heirs 
or for the lessor to require that the contract be terminated.  
  
Article (794 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for either of the contracting parties, for some unforeseen reason 
connected with him, to require that the contract of hire be terminated, and he shall then be 
liable for any harm sustained by the other contracting party arising out of such termination, 
within the limits laid down by custom.  
(2) If it is the lessor who requires the termination of the contract, the lessee shall not be bound to return the thing hire until he is paid compensation or is given a sufficient 
guarantee.  
  
Article (795 ) 
(1) If the thing hired is sold without the consent of the lessee, the sale shall be effective as 
between the seller and the purchaser, but  shall not affect the rights of the lessee.  
(2) If the lessee consents to or affirms the sale, the sale shall be effective as against him, and 
he shall be bound to deliver the thing hired unless he has paid the rent in advance, in which 
case he shall have the right to retain the thing hired until he recovers the equivalent of the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  181 
 rent in respect of the balance of the period for which he has not had the enjoyment of the 
thing hired.  
  
Article (796 ) 
A contract of hire over a house or the like shall not termin ate if it becomes apparent that the 
lessee has used it for immoral purposes and the public prosecutor has taken it over in order 
to restrain the immoral use thereof, but if such use has not ceased the judge may expel him therefrom upon the application of t he owner or neighbour, and he shall be bound to pay the 
rent therefor if by reason of such immoral use any harm has been sustained by the house or a neighbour, and he shall be bound to pay the rent in respect of the period during which he 
was evicted, prior to the reletting thereof.  
 
Part  2: Certain types of hire  
1- Leases of agricultural land  
Article (797 ) 
A lease over agricultural land shall be valid if it is accompanied by a declaration of what is to 
be grown thereon or if the lessee has the option to grow on it what he wishes.  
  
Article (798 ) 
It shall not be permissible to grant an immediate lease in possession over land while crops of another person are growing on it, if such crops have not matured, and it is cultivated by 
virtue of a right, unless the  lessee is the owner of the crops.  
  
Article (799 ) 
It shall be permissible to grant the lease over land with crops on it, and the owner thereof 
shall be bound to pick and deliver the crops to the lessee in the two following circumstances:  
(a) if it is sown  by virtue of a right and the crops have matured at the time of the lease; or  
(b) if it is sown without right whether the crops have matured or not.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  182 
 Article (800 ) 
It shall be permissible to grant a lease over land on which there are crops but deferred to a 
time at which the land is clear.  
  
Article (801 ) 
(1) If a person takes a lease of land for agriculture, the lease shall embrace all of the rights 
appurtenant ther eto, but agricultural plant and machinery shall not be included therein, nor 
shall things affixed to the land, save by a provision in the contract.  
(2) If the contract of lease does embrace agricultural plant, equipment etc., the lessee must maintain the same and use it in such manner as is customary. 
  
Article (802 ) 
If a person takes a piece of land on the basis that he may cultivate thereon what he wishes, 
he may cultivate it repeatedly during the year, both in summer and in winter.  
  
Article (803 ) 
If the period of a lease over land expires before the crop matures for a reason beyond the 
control of the lessee, he shall be permitted to remain at a fair rent until the crop matures and 
is harvested.  
  
Article (804 ) 
The lessee must exploit the agricultur al land in accordance with the customary requirements 
of good husbandry, and he must ensure that the land is left in a suitable condition for profitable use, and he must not make any change which will have a permanent effect on the 
use that can be made the reof after the expiration of the lease.  
  
Article (805 ) 
(1) The lessor shall be obliged to make such repairs upon which the enjoyment intended 
depends.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  183 
 (2) The lessee must make such repairs as are required by the normal use of the land, and 
must maintain the irrigation equipment, ditches, roads, bridges and wells.  
(3) All of the above shall apply unless there is an agreement or a custom to the contrary.  
  
Article (806 ) 
If the land leased is flooded so as to make it impossible to cultivate it or if the water is cut off 
so as to make it impossible to irrigate it or if the cost thereof becomes excessively onerous, 
or if an event of force majeure arises which pr ecludes the cultivation thereof, the lessee may 
cancel the contract, and no rent shall be due from him.  
  
Article (807 ) 
If the crop is destroyed prior to harvesting through a cause beyond the control of the lessee, 
he must pay rent in respect of the period up to the destruction of the crop, and he shall be 
released from the obligation to pay the balance unless it is within his power to cultivate a 
similar crop as before, and he shall pay the proportion of the balance of the period.  
  
Article (808 ) 
It shall not be permissible to cancel the contract nor to annul the rent or any part thereof if 
the lessee has received compensation from any party in respect of the damage suffered by 
him.  
2- Muzara'a 
a- Definition of muzara'a  
Article (809 ) 
A muzara'a is a contrac t for the exploitation of agricultural land made between the owner of 
the land and another person who is to exploit it, with the condition that the produce shall be 
shared between them in such shares as they may agree.  
 
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  184 
 b- The creation of a muzara'a  
Article (810 ) 
The following conditions must be satisfied in order for a muzara'a to be valid:  
(a) the land must be ascertained, and suitable for agriculture; 
(b) the type of crop or nature of seed must be specified, or the option must be left to the 
farmer  (the non -owning party) to cultivate what he wishes; and  
(c) the share of each of the parties in the produce must be determined as between them.  
  
Article (811 ) 
It shall not be permissible to make a stipulation that the seed or the tax due upon the land shall be excluded from the principal amount of the produce prior to distribution.  
  
Article (812 ) 
In a muzara'a, the period over which the land is to be cultivated must be such as to coincide with the realisation of the effect desired therefrom, and if it is  not so specified the contract 
shall have effect only in respect of one agricultural period.  
  
c- The effects of a muzara'a contract  
Article (813 ) 
If a contract of muzara'a is made, the produce shall  be jointly owned between the 
contracting parties, and they shall share therein in the proportion agreed upon.  
  
Article (814 ) 
(1) If a third party right arises in the land subject to a muzara'a after it has been sown, and before the period of the harvest of the crop, and if the parties to the contract were acting in 
good faith and were unaware of the cause of the arising of the third party right, they may 
keep the land under the muzara'a until the termination of the season for the crop sown, and 
the person  who provides the land shall be liable for a fair rent to the third party having the 
entitlement.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  185 
 (2) If both parties are acting in bad faith, the third party having the entitlement shall be 
entitled to remove the crops and to take the land free of any enc umbrance, and he shall be 
under no obligation towards either of them.  
(3) If the person who has provided the land is alone acting in good faith and the third party 
having the entitlement does not leave the land to them both at a fair rent until the 
termina tion of the season, the following provisions shall apply: 
(a) if the seed has been provided by the person who provided the land, then he shall be obliged to pay the fair rent to the farmer for his work together with compensation 
equivalent to the assets wh ich he has put in together with the workers' wages and other 
expenses as custom may dictate if the contract binds him to perform the foregoing, and any person who has provided the land may protect his position by paying the farmer the value of 
his share in the crop as left in place until it matures;  
(b) if the seeds belong to the farmer he shall have a claim, as against the person who 
provided the land, for the value of his share in the crop as left in place until it matures; or  
(c) the farmer shall, in eit her event, whether the seeds were provided by him or by the 
person who provided the land, have the right to elect to take his share of the crop when picked, and in that event that is all he will be entitled to.  
  
d- The obligations of the landowner  
Article (815 ) 
(1) The landowner must deliver the land in a condition fit for cultivation together with the 
rights of easement thereof such as watering and passage, together with all things allocated 
for the exploitation thereof if they have become permanent fixtu res. 
(2) He must also repair agricultural equipment if he has an obligation to deliver the same in 
working order if they require repair as a result of ordinary use.  
  
e- The obligations of the share cropper  
Article (816 ) 
(1) The farmer shall be bound to ca rry out the agricultural works, and to maintain and 
safeguard the crop, he shall also bear the cost of irrigation channels and the like until the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  186 
 time comes to harvest the crop.  
(2) With regard to the work involved in connection with the crop after it has reached the 
stage where it is harvestable and thereafter together with the costs to be incurred until the profits are divided, each of the contracting parties shall be liable therefor up to the amount 
of his share.  
  
Article (817 ) 
(1) The farmer must, in h is husbandry and safeguarding of the land and the appurtenances 
thereto, and of the crop and yield, take the care of the reasonable man.  
(2) If he defaults in any of the above and damage arises out of such default, he shall be liable therefor.  
  
Article (818 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for the farmer to lease the land or to entrust the farming 
thereof to a third party save with the consent of the land owner.  
(2) If the farmer is inbreach of that obligation, the landowner shall have the right to cancel  
the contract, and if at the time of the cancellation the land is sown and the seeds belong to 
the landowner, he shall have the right to recover them and shall have a recourse against the 
farmer for such damage as he has suffered.  If has not provided the seeds, he shall have the 
option either to recover the land cultivated and to give the value of the seeds to their owner, or to leave the crop to them until it is harvested, and to hold the first farmer liable for a 
reasonable rent and for such damage as he  has suffered.  
  
 
f- The termination of the muzara'a  
Article (819 ) 
A contract of muzara'a shall terminate upon the expiration of the period thereof, and if the 
period thereof expires before the crop matures, the farmer may keep the crop there until it is  
mature, and he shall be liable to pay a fair rent for the land in the amount of his share in the 
proceeds in respect of the subsequent period, and the necessary expenditure on the crop  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  187 
 shall be borne by each of the landowner and the farmer in the proporti on of their respective 
shares.  
  
Article (820 ) 
(1) If the landowner dies before the crop matures, the farmer shall continue to work until the 
crop matures, and the heirs shall have no right to prevent him. 
(2) If the farmer dies before the crop matures, hi s heirs shall take his place in performing the 
work until the crop matures, notwithstanding any objection made by the land owner.  
  
Article (821 ) 
(1) If a contract of muzara'a is cancelled or if it appears that it is void, or if an order is made declaring it void, the whole of the proceeds shall belong to the owner of the seed, and if the 
owner of the seed is the landowner the farmer shall be entitled to a fair remuner ­ation for 
his work, and if the owner of the seed is the farmer, the landowner shall be en titled to a fair 
rent for the land.  
(2) It shall not be permissible in either case for the amount of the consideration for the work or the land to exceed the value of the share of the owner thereof in the proceeds.  
  
3- Musaqah (contract to perform work on  another's agricultural land in 
consideration of part of the crop)  
Article (822 ) 
A musaqah is a contract between a worker and the owner of a tree or crop whereby the 
worker shall provide his services for the tree or crop for a specified period in consider ation 
for a part share in the yield. 
  
Article (823 ) 
In order for a musaqah to be valid, the share of each of the parties in the proceeds must be calculated according to the proportion of each.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  188 
 Article (824 ) 
In order for a musaqah over a tree to be valid, it must be of a kind which will bear fruit in the 
year of the contract of musaqah, and the fruit must not have become unfit for consumption 
prior to the musaqah being entered into, nor must it leave any second crop which fruits prior to the earlier fruit  being plucked without the cutting of the second crop, and if any of these 
three conditions are breached the musaqah shall not be valid unless the condition is 
ancillary to the joint purport of those conditions.  
  
Article (825 ) 
If a contract of musaqah is made over a tree with a crop ancillary thereto, or vice versa, and 
the value of the ancillary amounts to one third or less of the principal object, the contract 
over the principal object shall necessarily require that the subsidiary object is brought into 
the contract, with the following results:  
(a) the worker under the musaqah must serve the ancillary as if it were the principal; 
(b) it shall not be valid to stipulate that the proceeds thereof shall belong to the owner and 
not the worker;  
(c) the proporti on due to the worker from the proceeds must be the same as the proportion 
due from the principal object; and  
(d) the conditions for the validity of the musaqah shall be determined by (their applicability 
to) the principal object and not the ancillary objec t. 
  
Article (826 ) 
Musaqah is a contract immediately binding upon both parties, and neither of the contracting 
parties shall have the right to cancel the same save for a reason which justifies that.  
  
Article (827 ) 
(1) The period of the musaqah must be specified by reference to the harvest time or the time at which the harvest would normally be gathered, and if the contract is silent as to the time, 
it shall continue until the harvest in the event that the fruit is by way of a single crop, or until 
the firs t crop if there are several crops which are distinguishable, save that if it is stipulated  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  189 
 that the second crop should be incorporated within the period of the musaqah, the contract 
shall embrace the harvest thereof, and if there are several crops which ar e indistinguishable, 
the contract shall embrace the harvesting of the latest crop.  
(2) If the contract specifies a period in which it is expected that the fruit will appear and it 
does not appear at all, neither party shall have any rights as against the o ther.  
  
Article (828 ) 
The work and costs required for the musaqah shall be governed by the following provisions 
unless a contrary agreement is made:  
(a) works required in the service of a tree, the development of the yield and quality thereof, 
and the pres ervation thereof until maturity, such as irrigation, grafting, and acclimatisation 
shall be the responsibility of the worker, and fixed works not repeated annually such as 
digging wells and building storehouses for the preservation of the produce shall be the 
responsibility of the owner of the tree or the crop;  
(b) financial costs required in the course of exploitation or ordinary care, such as the cost of 
fertilizers and insecticides until the crop matures shall be borne by the owner of the tree or 
the crop; and  
(c) with regard to costs required after the maturity of the crop, such as the costs of harvesting 
and preservation, those shall be borne by each party in proportion to his share in the yield.  
 
Article (829 ) 
It shall not be permissible for the person  providing work under a contract of musaqah to 
enter into a similar contract with a third party without the permission of the owner of the 
tree or the crop, and if he does so the owner of the tree or the crop shall have the option as 
he wishes either to ta ke the whole of the yield and to give the person undertaking the work a 
quantum meruit reward, or to leave the yield to them both and have recourse against the 
first worker for reasonable recompense in respect of the subject matter of the musaqah, and 
to h old him liable for any damage suffered by reason of his act.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  190 
 Article (830 ) 
If there is a third party right over the tree, the fruit or the crop, and the contracting parties in 
the musaqah or either of them have expended money or done work such as to hav e an 
effect on the growth of the tree, the fruit or the crop, the following shall apply as the case 
may be:  
(1) if the third party having the right affirms the contract of musaqah, he shall take the place 
of the person providing the tree or the crop vis -à-vis the worker in respect of all rights and 
obligations arising out of the contract, and the third party having the right shall render unto 
the person providing the tree or the crop that same amount of useful expense which he has 
incurred in accordance wit h custom;  
(2) if the third party having a right does not affirm the contract and the musaqah has been made in good faith without the knowledge of either of the parties of the cause of the third 
party right, the third party having the right shall have the o ption either to take what is due to 
him and to pay to the worker a fair remuneration and to render unto the person who has 
provided the tree or the crop such useful expense as he has incurred according to custom, or 
to leave the yield to them both until th e end of the season, and to take from the person who 
has provided the tree or the crop just compensation according to custom in respect of his 
loss of use resulting from his having had to wait;  
(3) if the two contracting parties to a musaqah have acted in bad faith at the time they made 
the contract, the third party having the right may take what is due to him, and he shall not 
owe anything to either of the other two parties; or  
(4) if one of the two parties was acting in bad faith and the other was acting in good faith, 
the person who was acting in good faith shall have a right to just compensation as against the third party having the right according to custom in respect of any money expended or 
work done on the tree, the fruit or the crop.  
  
Article (831 ) 
If the worker is unable to work or if he is not to be trusted with the fruit, it shall be 
permissible for the owner of the crop to cancel the musaqah, and he must pay a quantum 
meruit consideration to the worker in respect of the period up to the cancella tion.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  191 
 Article (832 ) 
(1) A contract of musaqah shall not terminate upon the death of the owner of the tree or the 
crop, neither shall his heirs have the right to prevent the worker from continuing to perform 
his work in accordance with the contract.  
(2) If the worker dies, his heirs shall have the option  whether to terminate the contract or to 
continue the work, and if they elect to determine and the fruit has not ripened, they shall, 
upon its ripening, be entitled to receive what is due to their legator in  the proportion of the 
work which he performed prior to his death.  
(3) If it is a condition that the worker must carry out the work himself, the musaqah shall 
terminate upon his death, and his heirs shall, upon the fruits ripening, be entitled to what is 
due to him in respect of the work he has performed.  
  
Article (833 ) 
If the worker defaults in carrying out the work which it is stipulated he must do, or as is 
required by custom, then a deduction shall be made from the proportion due to him out of 
the yiel d in proportion to his default in carrying out the work.  
  
Article (834 ) 
The provisions governing muzara'a shall apply to musaqah save in respect of such matters as are governed by the foregoing provisions.  
  
4- Mugharasa (variety of agricultural contract:  joint ownership of the land 
and the crop)  
Article (835 ) 
Mugharasa is where a person gives his land to a person who will plant thereon a particular tree of his, on condition that they shall both be partners in the land and the tree in a 
specified proportion if the tree reaches a particular level of growth prior to fruiting.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  192 
 Article (836 ) 
The following conditions must be satisfied in order for a mugharasa to be valid:  
(1) the mugharasa must be over the fixed roots of the palm or the tree, and not over th e 
annual crop;  
(2) the type of plant to be planted in the land, whether it be palm or tree, must be specified 
at the time the contract is made;  
(3) the extent of participation in the land, and the palm or the tree, must be in an ascertained 
proportion; and  
(4) the commencement of the partnership over the tree or the land must be determined to coincide with the tree reaching a certain degree of growth prior to fruiting.  
  
Article (837 ) 
The provisions governing musaqah shall apply to mugharasa to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the nature thereof.  
   
Article (838 ) 
(1) Whoever is entrusted with the administration of a waqf shall also be entrusted with the 
leasing thereof.  
(2) If two persons are entrusted with a waqf, neither one of them may, acti ng on his own, 
grant a lease without the other.  
  
Article (839 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for a trustee to take a lease of waqf property for himself, even 
though it may be at a fair rent, unless the lease is approved by the judge.  
(2) It shall be permissible for him to grant a lease to his ascendants or descendants at a rent exceeding a fair rent, if the judge consents.  
  
Article (840 ) 
A beneficiary may not grant a lease of the waqf nor may he take the rent therefor  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  193 
 notwithstanding that he may be the sole person entitled, unless he has been so authorised 
by the donor or given permission by the person having the right to grant a lease.  
  
Article (841 ) 
(1) Any conditions laid down by the donor as to the leasing of a waqf must be observed, and 
if he has specified a period of lease, it shall not be permissible to contravene the same.  
(2) If there is no person who wishes to take a lease thereof for the period laid down, and the guardian has not been given the right to grant a lease as may be beneficial to th e waqf, the 
matter shall be referred to the judge in order for him to consent to the grant of the lease for 
such period as he deems most beneficial for the waqf.  
  
Article (842 ) 
(1) If the donor has not specified the period, real estate shall be leased for  a period of one 
year and land (without buildings) shall be leased for a period of three years at the most, 
unless the interests of the waqf require a different period, and the judge so permits.  
(2) If a lease is entered into for a period longer than one y ear even by concurrent contracts, it 
shall be reduced to the period laid down in the foregoing paragraph.  
(3) If the waqf requires development but there is no fund out of which it may be developed, 
it shall be permissible for the judge to permit that it be leased for such period as is sufficient 
for its development.  
  
Article (843 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible to grant leases over waqf property at less than a fair rent, and 
any lease granted at less than such a rent at the time it was made shall be cance lled, unless 
the lessee agrees to pay a fair rent, and the interests of the waqf are observed in so doing.  
(2) A fair rent shall be determined by experts as at the time it which the contract was made, 
and no regard shall be had to any unforeseen change dur ing the period of the contract.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  194 
 Article (844 ) 
If an inherent improvement is made to the site of the waqf which results in the fair market 
rent being substantially increased, in circumstances where any money expended or new 
buildings or development creat ed by the lessee have played any part therein, the lessee shall 
have the option either to terminate the contract or to agree to a new fair rent as from the 
time of the improvement, whether the lease was for development or otherwise.  
  
Article (845 ) 
(1) If the period of the lease expires and the lessee has built or planted upon the waqf 
property at his own expense with the consent of the person having power to grant the lease, 
he shall have a prior right over any third party for a lease for a future period a t a fair rent.  
(2) If he refuses to accept a fair rent and if the demolition of the building or the removal of 
the trees would damage the property leased, it shall be permissible for the waqf authority to 
take over ownership of what he has placed there for  the value that it would have if removed, 
unless they agree that he should leave the building or the plants until such time as they 
cease to be of use, upon which the lessee may take what is left.  
(3) It shall be permissible for the administrator to grant a lease over waqf property, together 
with the buildings and plants thereon, with the permission of the owner of such buildings or plants, on condition that he is given such proportion of the rent as is attributable to his 
ownership (of such buildings or pl ants).  
  
Article (846 ) 
If the period of the lease expires and the lessee has buildings or plants which he has placed 
on the waqf property at his own expense without permission, he shall be ordered to demolish the building or to uproot the plants if that would not cause any damage to the 
waqf property, but if the same would cause damage to the waqf property, he shall be 
compelled to wait until the building falls down or the tree becomes useless, and he shall 
bear the loss of value thereof, and in either case it shall be permissible for the waqf or the 
authority to take over ownership of what he has built or planted at a price not exceeding the 
lower of the two values of the demolished tree or the uprooted plant, or at their then value.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  195 
 Article (847 ) 
In matter s requiring the consent of the judge, the opinion of the Ministry having jurisdiction 
in waqf affairs shall be taken as to the best interests of the waqf, prior to the permission 
being given.  
  
Article (848 ) 
The provisions governing contracts of lease shal l apply to leases of waqf property in all 
matters which do not conflict with the foregoing provisions.  
  
Chapter Two : Loans  
Part  1: General provisions 
Article (849 ) 
A loan is the conferring of ownership upon another of the use of a thing without considerat ion for a specified period or for a specified purpose, with a condition that that 
thing should be returned after use, and the thing lent shall mean the thing the use of which 
ownership has been conferred.  
  
Article (850 ) 
A loan shall be effected by taking delivery of the thing lent, and a loan shall be of no effect 
prior to such taking of delivery.  
  
Article (851 ) 
A loan must be of a particular thing, suitable for use without the substance thereof being 
destroyed, and the use thereof must be lawful notwiths tanding that it is not such as may be 
properly sold.  
  
Article (852 ) 
The lender must be the owner of the use of the thing notwithstanding  that he may not be 
the owner of the thing itself, and he must not be under a restriction with regard to the use of  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  196 
 the thing lent.  
  
Article (853 ) 
The borrower must have the capacity to be the donee of the thing lent.  
  
Article (854 ) 
(1) If the period of the loan is restricted by time or by the use to be made, the lender may not 
retrieve the thing lent from the borrower prior to the expiration of the period of the loan, and if it is not restricted by time or by the use to be made, he may not retrieve it prior to the 
expiration of the usual period of the loan of such things.  
(2) The lender may recover it from the borrower in all circumstances if the use he makes of it is more onerous than the purpose for which it was lent or if he unexpe ctedly comes to need 
the thing lent.  
  
Article (855 ) 
A thing lent shall be a trust in the hands of the borrower, and if it is destroyed or lost or if the 
value thereof is diminished without any wrongful act or default on his part, he shall not be 
liable th erefor unless a contrary agreement has been made.  
  
Article (856 ) 
It shall not be permissible for a guardian or tutor to lend property of a person under his guardianship, and if either of such persons does lend it, the borrower shall be obliged to pay 
just remuneration, and if the thing lent is destroyed, the borrower shall be liable therefor.  
  
Article (857 ) 
It shall not be permissible for a wife without the consent of her husband to lend anything owned by him, and which is not normally left under her cont rol, and if she does so and the 
thing lent is destroyed or damaged, the husband shall have the option either to have a recourse against her or against the borrower for an indemnity.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  197 
 Article (858 ) 
If a person borrows land to build a building or plant a tree on it for a specified period by (an 
agreed) condition or by custom, the lender shall, upon the expiration of such period, have 
the option either to require the borrower to demolish the building or uproot the tree and restore the land to its former conditi on, or to pay him the value of the building as removed 
or the value of the tree as uprooted, unless an agreement has been made to the contrary.  
  
Article (859 ) 
The lender shall not have the right to claim hire from the borrower in respect of the thing 
borr owed after the enjoyment of it has ceased.  
  
Article (860 ) 
(1) If there is a third party right over the thing borrowed while in the hands of t he borrower, 
he shall not be liable to the lender in the absence of a contrary agreement or if he has 
deliberately concealed the cause of such third party right.  
(2) The lender shall be liable for any damage sustained by the borrower in respect of such third party right.  
(3) If the third party right arises after the destruction of the thing lent in the hands of the borrower, without any wrongful act or default on his part and the third party having the right elects to make him liable, the borrower shall hav e a right of recourse against the lender 
in respect of his liability to the third party.  
(4) The lender shall not be liable for any latent defects unless he deliberately conceals such 
defect or guarantees that the thing is free of such defect.  
  
Part  2: Obligations of the borrower  
Article (861 ) 
(1) The borrower must preserve the thing lent and safeguard it as he would his own 
property, without in so doing falling below the standard of care that the reasonable man 
takes over his own property.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  198 
 (2) If he is gu ilty of a shortcoming in averting any damage to the thing lent which it was in 
his power to avert, he shall be liable therefor.  
  
Article (862 ) 
The lender shall bear the costs expended on the thing lent, and shall be responsible for the 
expenses of returni ng and transporting it.  
 
Article (863 ) 
(1) The borrower may make such use of the thing lent as it customary in an unconditional loan not restricted as to time, place or type of use.  
(2) If the loan is restricted by time or place, he must observe such restriction, and he may 
not, if the type of use if specified, exceed such amount of use, and in the least damaging way.  
  
Article (864 ) 
(1) If a defect arises in the thing lent as a resul t of use, the lender shall be bound to make 
good the loss of value, but he shall not be liable for such loss of value unless it arises out of 
the use of the thing in a manner contrary to custom.  
(2) If the borrower exceeds the customary limits applicable t o a loan or if he uses it contrary 
to custom and it is destroyed or damaged, he shall be liable to the lender for such destruction or damage.  
  
Article (865 ) 
It shall not be permissible for the borrower without the consent of the lender to dispose of the t hing lent in such a way as to confer upon a third party any right of enjoyment or 
property right in the thing lent, or to pledge it, hire it out, or the like.  
  
Article (866 ) 
The borrower may deposit the thing lent with a trustworthy person capa ble of preserving it, 
and he shall not be liable for the thing if it is destroyed in the hands of such person without  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  199 
 any wrongful act or default.  
  
Part  3: Termination of the loan  
Article (867 ) 
A loan shall terminate :  
(1) upon the expiry of the agreed period;  
(2) upon the enjoyment for which the loan was intended being fully derived; or  
(3) upon the death of the lender or the borrower, where the benefit of the loan does not pass 
to the heirs of the borrower.  
  
Article (868 ) 
If the borrower dies having said nothing about the loan, and the thing lent is not found in his 
estate, the value thereof as at the time of the death shall constitute a liability against the 
estate.  
  
Article (869 ) 
The borrower may return the thing lent pr ior to the expiration of the period of loan, but if 
such return is prejudicial to the lender, he shall not be obliged to accept it.  
  
Article (870 ) 
(1) If the loan is cancelled or terminates, lender must return the thing lent to the owner, and he must make no further use of it unless the law permits him to retain it.  
(2) If the loan terminates by reason of the death of the borrower, his heirs shall be bound to deliver it to the lender upon demand.  
  
Article (871)  
(1) If the thing lent is a precious object, the lender must deliver it in person to the borrower, 
but so far as concerns other things, it shall be permissible to deliver them either in person or through people acting under him who are capable of delivering them.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  200 
 (2) The thing lent must be returned a t the place agreed, or otherwise in the place in which it 
was lent, or as is dictated by custom.  
 
Section  3: Contracts of work  
Chapter  One : Muqawala (contract to make a thing or to perform a task)  
Part  1: Definition and scope of muqawala  
Article (872 ) 
A m uqawala is a contract whereby one of the parties thereto undertakes to make a thing or 
to perform work in consideration which the other party undertakes to provide.  
  
Article (873 ) 
(1) The agreement in a muqawala contract may be restricted to the contractor undertaking 
to provide work on condition that the employer provides the materials to be used, or that 
(the contractor) makes use of them in carrying out his work.  
(2) It shall also be permissible for the contractor to provide the materials and the work.  
  
Article (874 ) 
In a muqawala contract, there must be a description of the subject matter of the contract, 
and particulars must be given of the type and amount thereof, the manner of performance, and the period over which it is to be performed, and the con sideration must be specified.  
  
Part  2: Effects of a muqawala  
1- Obligations of the contractor  
Article (875 ) 
(1) If the employer stipulates that the contractor should provide the materials for the work, either in whole or in part, he shall be liable for th e quality thereof in accordance with the 
conditions of the contract if any, or in accordance with current practice.  
(2) If it is the employer who is bound to provide the materials for the work, the contractor  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  201 
 must take due care of them and observe proper t echnical standards in his work, and return 
the balance of the materials to the owner, and if he makes default and the materials are 
destroyed, damaged or lost, he shall be liable therefor.  
  
Article (876 ) 
The contractor must provide at his own expense such  additional equipment and tools as are 
necessary to complete the work, unless there is an agreement or custom to the contrary.  
  
Article (877 ) 
The contractor must complete the work in accordance with the conditions of the contract.  If 
it appears that he is carrying out what he has undertaken to do in a defective manner or in a 
manner in breach of the agreed conditions, the employer may require that the contract be 
terminated immediately if it is impossible to make good the work, but if it is possible to make good the work it shall be permissible for the employer to require the contractor to 
abide by the conditions of the contract and to repair the work within a reasonable period.  If 
such period expires without the reparation being performed, the employer may apply to the judge for the cancellation of the contract or for leave to himself to engage another contractor 
to complete the work at the expense of the first contractor.  
  
Article (878 ) 
The contractor shall be liable for any loss or damage resulting from his act or work whether 
arising through his wrongful act or default or not, but he shall not be liable if it arises out of 
an event which could not have been prevented.  
  
Article (879) 
(1) If the work of the contractor produces (a beneficial) effect on the property in question, he may retain it until the consideration due is paid, and if it is lost in his hands prior to payment 
of the consideration, he shall not be liable to the loss, nor shall he be entitled to the consideration.  
(2) If his work produces no (beneficial) effect on the property, he shall not have the right to  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  202 
 retain it pending payment of the consideration, and if he does so and the property is lost, he 
shall be liable in the same manner as if he  had misappropriated it.  
  
Article (880 ) 
(1) If the subject matter of the contract is the construction of buildings or other fixed installations, the plans for which are made by an architect, to be carried out by the 
contractor under his supervision, they shall both be jointly liable for a period of ten years to make compensation to the employer for any total or partial collapse of the building they 
have constructed or installation they have erected, and for any defect which threatens the 
stability or safety of the building, unless the contract specifies a longer period.  The above 
shall apply unless the contracting parties intend that such installations should remain in 
place for a period of less than ten years.  
(2) The said obligation to make compensation shall remain notwithstanding that the defect 
or collapse arises out of a defect in the land itself or that the employer consented to the 
construction of the defective buildings or installations.  
(3) The period of ten years shall commence as from the time of delivery of the work.  
 
Article (881 ) 
If the work of the architect is restricted to making the plans to the exclusion of supervising 
the execution, he shall be liable only for defects in the plans.  
  
Article (882 ) 
Any agreement the purport of which is to exempt the contractor or the architect from 
liability, or to limit such liability, shall be void.  
  
Article (883)  
No claim for compensation shall be heard after the expiration of three years from the 
collapse or the discovery of the defect.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  203 
 2- Obligations of the employer  
Article (884 ) 
The employer shall be bound to take delivery of the work done when the contractor has 
completed it and placed it at his disposal, and if, without lawful reason, he refuses, despite 
being given official notice, to take delivery, and the property is destroyed or damaged in the 
hands of the contractor without any wrongful act or default on his part, the contractor shall 
not be liable.  
  
Article (885 ) 
The employer shall be obliged to pay the consideration upon delivery  of the property 
contracted for, unless there is an agreement or a custom to the contrary.  
  
Article (886 ) 
(1) If a contract is made under an itemised list on the basis of unit prices and it appears 
during the course of the work that it is necessary for the execution of the plan agreed substantially to exceed the quantities on the itemised list, the contractor must immediately 
notify the employer thereof, setting out the increased price expected, and if he does not do 
so he shall lose his right to recover t he excess cost over and above the value of the itemised 
list. 
(2) If the excess required to be performed in carrying out the plan is substantial, the employer may withdraw from the contract and suspend the execution, but he must do so 
without delay and mus t pay the contractor the value of the work he has carried out, assessed 
in accordance with the conditions of the contract.  
  
Article (887 ) 
(1) If a muqawala contract is made on the basis of an agreed plan in consideration of a lump 
sum payment, the contractor may not demand any increase over the lump sum as may arise out of the execution of such plan.  
(2) If any variation or addition is made to the plan with the consent of the employer, the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  204 
 exis ting agreement with the contractor must be observed in connection with such variation 
or addition.  
  
Article (888 ) 
If the consideration for the work is not specified in a contract, the contractor shall be entitled 
to fair remuneration, together with the va lue of the materials he has provided as required by 
the work.  
  
Article (889 ) 
(1) If the architect who has planned the building and supervised the performance thereof 
has not agreed upon a fee, he shall be entitled to fair remuneration in accordance with 
custom.  
(2) If any unforeseen event occurs which prevents the completion of the performance of the 
work in accordance with the plan prepared, he shall be entitled to fair remuneration for 
what he has done.  
  
Part  3: Subcontracting 
Article (890 ) 
(1) A contractor may entrust the performance of the whole or part of the work to another contractor unless he is prevented from so doing by a condition of the contract, or unless the 
nature of the work requires that he do it in person.  
(2) The first contra ctor shall remain liable as towards the employer.  
  
Article (891 ) 
A sub -contractor shall have no claim against the employer for anything due to him from the 
first contractor unless he has made an assignment to him against the employer.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  205 
 Part  4: Termination of a muqawala  
Article (892 ) 
A contract of muqawala shall terminate upon the completion of the work agreed or upon 
the cancellation of the contract by consent or by order of the court.  
  
Article (893 ) 
If any cause arises preventing the performance of the contract or the completion of the 
performance thereof, either of the contracting parties may require that the contract be 
cancelled or terminated as the case may be.  
  
Article (894 ) 
If the contractor commences to perform the work and then becomes incapable of completing it for a cause in which he played no part, he shall be entitled to the value of the 
work which he has completed and the expenses he has incurred in the performance thereof 
up to the amount of the benefit the employer has derived t herefrom.  
  
Article (895 ) 
A party injured by the cancellation may make a claim for compensation against the other party to the extent allowed by custom.  
  
Article (896 ) 
(1) A contract of muqawala shall terminate upon the death of the contractor if it is agreed that he should perform the work himself, or if his personal qualifications are a material 
consideration in the contract.  
(2) If the contract contains no such condit ion or if the personal qualifications of the 
contractor were not a material consideration in the contract, the employer may require that the contract be cancelled if the contractor's heirs do not provide sufficient guarantees for the 
proper performance of the work.  
(3) In either event, the value of the works carried out and the expenses incurred therein shall  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  206 
 devolve upon the estate in accordance with the conditions of the contract and the 
requirements of custom.  
 
Chapter  Two:  Contracts of employment 
Part  1: The creation and conditions thereof  
Article (897 ) 
(1) A contract of employment is a contract whereby one of the parties thereto undertakes to carry out work for the benefit of the other under his supervision or management in 
consideration of remuneration  which the other party undertakes to pay.  
(2) If the worker is not prohibited to work for another employer or if he is not restricted to a 
specified time in his work for the employer, he shall not be subject to any contract of 
employment, but shall be enti tled to his remuneration in accordance with the agreement.  
  
Article (898 ) 
(1) A contract of employment may be for a specified or unspecified duration, and for a specified job.  
(2) If the contract  of employment is for the duration of the life of the worker or of the 
employer or for a period of more than five years, it shall be permissible for the worker, upon the expiration of a period of five years, to terminate the contract without compensation, but 
provided that he gives six months notice to the employer.  
  
Article (899 ) 
The period of employment shall commence as of the time specified in the contract, and if no 
time is specified then it shall commence as from the date of the contract unless a con trary 
effect is dictated by custom or the circumstances of the contract.  
  
Article (900 ) 
(1) If the contract of employment is for a specified period it shall determine immediately 
upon the expiration of such period, but if both parties continue to perform the contract after  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  207 
 the expiration of the period thereof, that fact shall be deemed to constitute a renewal of the 
contract for an unspecified period.  
(2) If the contract of employment is for the performance of a particular job of work, it shall 
terminate w hen that job is  completed.  If the work is of its nature such as is repeatable, and 
the contract continues to be performed after the completion of the work agreed upon, the 
contract shall be deemed to have been impliedly renewed for the period necessary t o 
undertake the same work again.  
  
Article (901 ) 
(1) The remuneration of a worker is the property or benefit he receives under the contract, 
whatever form that may take.  
(2) If the remuneration is not assessed in the contract, the worker shall be entitled to a fair 
remuneration in accordance with custom, and if there is no such custom, the judge shall 
have jurisdiction to assess the same in accord ­ance with the requirements of justice.  
  
Article (902 ) 
(1) The following sums shall be deemed to be an integral part of the remuneration of the 
worker and shall be taken into account in settling his rights and in determining the amount 
that may be retained:  
(a) commission payable to commercial travellers, repr esentatives, canvassers and trade 
agents;  
(b) percentage proportions payable to employees of businesses in respect of the price of 
what they sell together with any cost of living allowances paid to them; and  
(c) any benefit given to a worker in excess of h is salary, loyalty bonus or recompense in 
respect of increased family burdens or the like, if such sums are laid down in the individual 
contracts of work or the regulations of the business, or if custom provides that they should 
be given, in such a way tha t the employees of the business regard them as part of their 
remuneration and not a gift, but provided that such sums are of an ascertained amount prior 
to the retention.  
(2) Anything given by way of gift shall not be regarded as part of the remuneration s ave in  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  208 
 the case of any trade or industry where there is a custom to make a gift, and there are rules 
whereby they may be regulated.  
A gift shall be regarded as part of the remuneration if it is such as is paid by customers to 
employees of a single business and is collected in a common fund for the employer to 
distribute it thereafter among such employees, either by himself or under his supervision.  
It shall be permissible in certain trades such a hotel, restaurant, c afe and bar trade for a 
worker to have no remuneration save what he is given by way of tip, and the food he 
receives.  
  
Article (903 ) 
If a person performs work at the request of another without any agreement as to 
remuneration, he shall be entitled to a ju st remuneration if he is a person who (normally) 
works for remuneration, but otherwise he shall not be entitled to any remuneration.  
  
Article (904 ) 
If the work contracted for is the teaching of a thing in such a way that the learner assists the 
teacher, a nd the contract does not specify which of them is entitled to remuneration from 
the other, then the custom of those engaged in similar activities at the place of work shall be 
followed.  
  
Part  2: The effects of a contract of employment 
1- Obligations of th e employee  
Article (905 ) 
The employee must:  
(1) perform the work himself and take the care of the reasonable man in so doing;  
(2) observe the requirements of propriety and morals in his behaviour;  
(3) obey the orders of the employer relating to the performance of the agreed work in all 
matters which may expose him to risk, and not act contrary to the law or morals;  
(4) preserve the things entrusted to him for the performance of his work; and   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  209 
 (5) keep the industrial or trade secrets of the employer, includin g after the termination of the 
contract, as required by the agreement or by custom.  
  
Article (906 ) 
The employer shall be bound by all customs relating to the work, notwithstanding that the 
same may not have been stipulated in the contract.  
  
Article (907 ) 
It shall not be permissible for the employee to do any other work during his working hours, nor may he, during the period of the contract, work for another employer, otherwise it shall 
be permissible for the employer to cancel the contract or to reduce hi s remuneration to the 
extent that the worker has defaulted in working for him.  
  
Article (908 ) 
The employee shall be liable to the employer for any shortfall, damage or loss to the 
property of the latter by reason of any default or wrongful act on his part.  
  
Article (909 ) 
(1) If the work of the employee is such as to permit him to have access to work secrets or to make acquaintance with the customers of the business, it shall be permissible for both 
parties to agree that it shall not be permissible for the employee to compete with the 
employer or to engage in an employment which competes with him af ter the termination of 
the contract.  
(2) Provided that such agreement shall not be valid unless it is limited in time, place and type of work to such extent as may be necessary to protect the lawful interests of the employer.  
(3) It shall not be permissibl e for the employer to rely on that agreement if he terminates the 
contract without any act on the part of the employee justifying that course, and likewise it 
shall not be permissible for him to rely on the agreement if he commits any act which 
justifies t he employee in terminating the contract.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  210 
 Article (910 ) 
If both parties agree that the employee should be liable in the event that he is in breach of 
his agreement not to compete, and such liability is fixed at an exorbitant amount in such a 
way as to compel him to remain with the employer, such a provision shall be invalid.  
  
Article (911 ) 
(1) If the employee makes a new invention or discovery during the course of his work, the 
employer shall be entitled thereto only in the following circumstances:  
(a) if  the nature of the work agreed was to achieve such an object;  
(b) if it has been expressly agreed in the contract that he shall have the right to have the 
benefit of any invention made by the employee; or  
(c) if the employee makes such an invention through the materials, appliances, installations 
or any other means placed at his disposal by the employer for his use in achieving such an 
end.  
(2) Provided that if the invention or discovery referred to in the aforementioned cases is of major economic importance, it shall be permissible for the employee to require special 
recompense in accordance with the requirements of justice, and regard shall be had in 
assessing the same to the assistance provided by the employer.  
The foregoing provisions shall be without prejudice to any special laws relating to 
inventions and discoveries.  
  
2- Obligations of the employer  
Article (912 ) 
(1) The employer must pay the agreed remuneration to the employee when he performs his wor k or holds himself in exclusive readiness, notwithstanding that no work may be given to 
him to do.  
(2) The payment of the remuneration to the employee shall be made at the time and place 
specified in the contract or dictated by custom.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  211 
 Article (913 ) 
The employer must:  
(a) provide full safety and security at his establishments and provide all means necessary to 
enable the employee to carry out his obligations;  
(b) attend to the fitness of the special appliances and equipment for the work, so that they 
will do no harm;  
(c) observe the requirements of morals and decorum in his relationship with the employee;  
(d) give to the employee at the termination of his services a certificate of the type of work, 
the date of commencement and termination, the amount of his remuneration, and any other 
matters that may be appropriate; and 
(e) return all of the employee's papers to him.    
  
Article (914 ) 
If an employer asks another person to perform work on the basis that he will be rewarded, 
he shall be obliged to give him just remuneration whether such person is one who 
(normally) works for remuneration or not.    
  
Article (915 ) 
An employer shall be bound to feed his employee or to clothe him if custom so requires, whether the same is made a condition of the contract or not.  
  
Article (916 ) 
If the specified period of the contract of employment expires and there are reasonable grou nds for extending the period thereof, the contract shall be extended so long as may be 
necessary, and the employer shall be liable to pay the remuneration for the additional period.  
  
Article (917)  
If the period of the work is specified in the contract and the employer cancels the contract 
prior to the expiration of the said period without (proper) excuse or without any  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  212 
 shortcoming in the work of the employee, he shall be obliged to pay the wage until the 
period is completed if the employee makes himself av ailable for service during such period.  
  
Article (918 ) 
Both the employer and the employee must abide by their obligations as laid down by special laws, as well as their obligations as laid down in the foregoing Articles.  
 
Part  3: Termination of the contract of employment 
Article (919 ) 
(1) A contract of employment shall terminate upon the expiration of the period laid down 
therefor unless it is stipulated that it should be renewed, and likewise it shall terminate upon 
the completion of the work agreed, without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 898 and 
900.  
(2) If the period is not specified by agreement or determined by the nature of the work or the purpose thereof, either of the contracting parties may terminate the contract as any time on 
condition that he gives notice to the other party of his intention to do so within a reasonable 
period prior to the termination of the contract.  
  
Article (920 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible to cancel the contract if there is a reasonable caus e preventing the 
performance of the subject matter thereof.  
(2) It shall be permissible for either of the contracting parties in the event of an unexpected 
cause relating to him to require that the contract be terminated.  
(3) In either of the cases referre d to above, the person requiring the cancellation shall be 
liable for any damage caused to the other contracting party arising out of such cancellation.  
  
Article (921 ) 
The contract shall terminate upon t he death of the employee, and it shall likewise terminate 
upon the death of the employer, if the personality of either of them was a material factor in  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  213 
 the conclusion of the contract.  
  
Article (922 ) 
(1) No claims arising out of a contract of employment sh all be heard after the expiration of 
one year from the date of the termination of the contract.  
(2) Such period shall not apply to claims relating to breach of confidence in relation to trade 
secrets.  
  
Article (923 ) 
(1) The provisions relating to hire sha ll apply to a contract of employment in all matters not 
governed by a special provision.  
(2) The provisions governing contracts of employment shall not apply to employees subject to the Labour Law save to the extent that what they do not expressly or impli edly conflict 
with the special legislation relating thereto.  
  
Chapter Three : Contract of agency  
Part  1: General provisions 
Article (924 ) 
Agency is a contract whereby the principal puts another person in the place of himself in an ascertained, permitted dealing.  
  
Article (925 ) 
(1) The following conditions must be satisfied for an agency to be valid: ‑ 
(a) the principal has the right to deal himself in the matter which he delegates;  
(b) the agent is not prohibited in dealing in the matter delegated to him; a nd 
(c) the subject matter of the agency must be ascertained, and must be such as is capable of being performed by proxy.  
(2) An agency to appear in legal proceedings does not require the consent of the opposing 
party.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  214 
 Article (926 ) 
An agency may properly be absolute (general) or restricted (special), or dependent upon a 
condition, or deferred to a time in the future.  
  
Article (927 ) 
(1) An agency shall be particular (special) if it is restricted to one or more specified matters, and shall be general if it includes everything which may be done by proxy.  
(2) If it is particular, the agent may carry out only those matters specified in it, and things 
necessarily incidental to such matters required by the nature of the dealings delegated, or by 
current usage. 
(3) If it is general, the agent may make contracts and transact dealings, with the exception of 
making gifts, for which he must obtain authority.  
  
Article (928 ) 
If the agency is granted by general words with no clear indication as to the purpose of it, 
then the agent will only be authorised to carry out administrative acts, and to hold property.  
  
Article (929 ) 
Any act which is not an administrative act or the holding of property requires the grant of a 
special agency specifying the ki nd of act and the dealings to be performed under the agency.  
  
Article (930 ) 
Subsequent permission for a dealing shall be regarded as a prior grant of agency.  
  
Part  2: The effects of agency  
1- Obligations of the agent  
Article (931 ) 
By virtue of the contract of agency the agent shall have the power to conduct dealings within the scope of the agency and may not go beyond those limits save as may result in a greater  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  215 
 benefit to the principal.  
  
Article (932 ) 
(1) If the agency is gratuito us, the agent must exercise in carrying it out such care as he 
would in his private affairs. 
(2) If the agency is for remuneration, the agent must exercise in carrying it out the care of the 
reasonable man.  
  
Article (933 ) 
(1) If there is more than one age nt and each of them has an independent contract he shall 
operate exclusively in the matter delegated, but if the principal makes it a condition that 
there should be no independence, then none of them may act independently and the principal shall not be bou nd by what any of them does independently.  
(2) If several agents are appointed in one contract without any of them being given the power to act on his own, they must act jointly unless the work is such that it cannot be done 
jointly with another such as le gal representation, but (the person acting on his own) must 
consult the others appointed with him or (sic) it is a matter which does not require the 
exchange of views such as the collection or payment of a debt.  
  
Article (934 ) 
(1) An agent may not delegat e to another person all or part of what he has been appointed 
to do unless he is so permitted by the principal or authorised to act as he thinks fit, and the second agent shall be deemed to be the agent of the original principal.  
(2) If the agent is author ised to appoint others as agents without limitation, he shall be 
responsible as against his principal in respect of his error in appointing another or in the 
instructions he gives to him. 
(3) It shall be permissible for the agent under a special agency if he has more than one act to 
perform to appoint others to assist him, but not to act independently.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  216 
 Article (935 ) 
Contracts involving gifts, loans, pledges, deposits, partnerships, sleeping partnerships or 
composition of disputes after denial made by the agent shall not be valid unless made in the 
name of the principal.  
  
Article (936 ) 
(1) The contract need not be made in the name of the principal if it is a contract of sale, 
purchase, lease, or settlement by way of acknowledgement, and if the agent does make such contracts in the name of the principal within the limits of the agency the rights arising 
thereunder shall accrue to the principal, an d if he makes it in his own name without 
disclosing that he is acting in his capacity as an agent, the rights under the contract shall vest in him.  
(2) In both cases the benefit of the contract shall enure to the principal.  
  
Article (937 ) 
Property collect ed by an agent on account of the principal shall be deemed to be a deposit, 
and if it is lost while in his possession without any infringement or default on his part, then he shall not be liable for it.  
  
Article (938 ) 
A person appointed as agent to receiv e property shall not have the right to take legal 
proceedings, and an agent appointed to take legal proceedings shall not have the right to 
receive property, save with special permission from the principal.  
  
Article (939 ) 
In legal proceedings it shall not  be permissible to appoint an attorney who is the enemy of 
the opposing party.  
    
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  217 
 Article (940 ) 
(1) A person entrusted with the purchase of a thing at an unspecified price may purchase it 
for a fair price, or with a slight cheating, in the case of things w hich do not have a fixed price.  
(2) If a purchase is made of things which have a fixed price, and there is a slight cheating, or 
if any purchase is made and there is gross cheating, the contract shall not be effective as 
against the principal. 
[Note: "Chea ting" in this context is a reference to an unfair price taken or given by one party 
where the other party is ignorant of that market.  It does not indicate fraud].  
  
Article (941 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for an agent instructed to buy a specified t hing to buy it for 
himself, and the purchase shall be for the principal even if he has given authorisation that 
(the agent) may purchase it for himself.  
(2) It shall not be permissible for a purchasing agent to sell his own property to his principal.  
  
Article (942 ) 
The purchase shall be for the agent if: - 
(a) the principal has specified the price and the agent has purchased at a higher price;  
(b) the agent has purchased at a grossly unfair price; or  
(c) he is authorised to purchase the property for himself  in the presence of the principal.  
  
Article (943 ) 
(1) If a purchasing agent pays the price of the goods bought out of his own money, he shall have a right of recourse for it against his principal together with the reasonable amount of expenses incurred in  carrying out the agency.  
(2) He may retain what he has purchased until he receives the price.  
  
Article (944 ) 
(1) The agent who is instructed to sell the property of his principal without the price being  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  218 
 specified may sell it at an appropriate price.  
(2) If the principal specifies a sale price to him, he may not sell it at a lower price.  
(3) If he sells the property at a lower price without prior consent or subsequent ratification 
from the principal and delivers it to the purchaser, then the principal shal l have the option 
between recovering the thing sold, and recovering the amount of the shortfall from the 
agent.  
  
Article (945 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for a selling agent to purchase for himself that which he is 
instructed to sell.  
(2) He may not sell it to his ascendants, descendants or spouse, or to a person out of dealing 
with whom he derives an advantage, or to whom he pays a premium, save at an amount greater than the fair price.  
It shall be permissible to sell to such persons at a fair price if the principal has authorised him to sell to whomever he wishes.  
  
Article (946 ) 
(1) If a selling agent is not restricted to a cash sale, he may sell the property of his principal for cash or on credit in accordance with custom.  
(2) If the agent sells on credit, he may take a pledge or security from the purchaser for the 
goods sold on credit, notwithstanding that the principal may not have authorised him to do 
so. 
  
Article (947 ) 
(1) The principal shall have the right to receive the price of the goods sol d from the 
purchaser even if he receives it in the name of the agent, and the purchaser may refuse to 
pay the principal, but if he does pay him, he shall be discharged.  
(2) If the agent is not being remunerated, he shall not be obliged to recover or get in  the price 
of the thing sold, but he shall be obliged to authorise the principal to collect the price.  
(3) If the agent is being remunerated, he shall be obliged to get in the price.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  219 
 Article (948 ) 
The agent shall be obliged to provide his principal with th e necessary information as to the 
result achieved in the carrying out of his agency, and to provide him with an account of it.  
  
2- Obligations of the principal 
Article (949 ) 
The principal must pay the agreed remuneration to the agent when he carries out t he work, 
and if no remuneration has been agreed and the agent is the one who does such work for 
remuneration he shall be paid fairly, otherwise the agency shall be gratituous.  
  
Article (950 ) 
The principal must reimburse to the agent the reasonable expenses he has incurred in carrying out his agency.  
  
Article (951 ) 
(1) The principal shall be responsible for all of the obligations devolving upon the agent in the course of the normal carrying out of the agency.  
(2) He shall be responsible for all loss suffe red by the agent by reason of the ordinary 
carrying out of the agency, unless it arises out of the agent's default or error.   
Article (952 ) 
(1) If any person instructs another to settle his debt out of that other's own money and he does so, that shall be deemed to be an agency and the person instructed shall have a right of 
recourse against the person instructing him in respect of the money he has paid, whether or 
not the person giving the instructions has stipulated that there should be such a right.  
(2) If he instructs him to perform an act at his expense or at the expense of his relatives or 
family, he shall have a right of recourse against him for the customary amount notwithstanding that no such recourse has been stipulated.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  220 
 Article (953 ) 
The provisi ons relating to contracting by proxy laid down in this law shall apply to the 
relationship between the principal and the agent with another who deals with the agent.  
  
Part  3: The termination of the agency  
Article (954 ) 
The agency shall terminate:  
(a) upon  the completion of the work which was delegated;  
(b) upon the expiration of the time fixed for it;  
(c) upon the death of the principal or his ceasing to have legal capacity, notwithstanding that 
third party rights may have arisen in respect of the agency, save in the case of an agency for 
selling or pledging if the pledgor has deputed the relevant court official or the pledgee to sell 
the thing pledged upon the expiration of the period of the pledge; or  
(d) upon the death of the agent or upon his ceasing to be of legal capacity, notwithstanding 
that third party rights may have arisen in respect of the agency.    
However, an heir or guardian must, if he knows of the agency and is of full capacity, notify 
the principal of the death and take such steps as the c ircumstances require in the principal's 
interests.  
  
Article (955 ) 
The principle may dismiss or restrict (the powers of) the agent if he wishes, unless third party 
rights have arisen in respect of the agency or if the agency has been created for the benefi t of 
the agent, in which case the principal may not terminate or restrict it without the consent of 
the person for whose benefit it was created.  
  
Article (956 ) 
The principal must indemnify the agent against any loss suffered by him arising out of his 
bein g dismissed at an inappropriate time or without acceptable justification.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  221 
  
Article (957 ) 
The agent may dismiss himself from the agency if no third party rights have arisen in respect 
thereof.  He must so notify his principal and must continue any work he has begun until it 
reaches a stage at which there is no fear that the principal will be prejudiced.  
  
Article (958 ) 
(1) The agent must give an indemnity for any damage to the principal arising o ut of his 
abandoning the agency at an inappropriate time or without justification, if the agency was 
for remuneration.  
(2) If there are third party rights subsisting in respect of the agency, the agent must do that which he was instructed to do unless ther e are serious reasons justifying the 
abandonment.  He must in that event notify the person having the right and defer (the 
abandonment) to such time as will enable him to protect his interests.  
  
Article (959 ) 
The agent for legal proceedings shall be dismi ssed if he makes an admission against his 
principal otherwise than before the court, and he shall likewise be dismissed if his agency 
does not entitle him to make such admission and he does in fact make it either before the court or elsewhere.  
  
Article (960) 
If an agent for legal proceedings acts in that which he was instructed to do after learning of his dismissal, he shall be bound to indemnify (in respect of the results), and if he acts therein before learning of his dismissal his acts shall be valid. 
  
Article (961 ) 
An agent of an agent shall be dismissed upon the death or bankruptcy of the original 
principal or upon his being dismissed by the principal or the (intermediate) agent, but he  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  222 
 shall not be dismissed as a result of the death or dismissal of the intermediate agent.  
Chapter Four : Contracts of bailment  
Part  1: General provisions 
Article (962 ) 
(1) Bailment is a contract whereby the bailor authorises another person to take care of his 
property and whereby that other person is obliged to take care of the property and to return 
the thing itself.  
(2) The subject of the bailment is the property deposited with a bailee for safekeeping.  
  
Article (963 ) 
In order for the contract to be valid, the thing bailed must be property which is capable of 
being possessed.  
  
Article (964 ) 
Bailment shall be effected by actual or constructive taking possession of the thing bailed.  
 
Article (965 ) 
The bailee may not requ ire any remuneration for the safekeeping of the property bailed or 
rent for the place in which it is kept unless it is so stipulated upon the bailment being made, or there is a special custom in that regard.  
  
Part  2: The effects of the contract  
1- Obligat ions of the bailee  
Article (966 ) 
The property bailed shall be held in trust by the bailee, and he shall be liable for it if it perishes through his wrongful act or default in the safekeeping thereof, unless a contrary agreement is made.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  223 
 Article (967 ) 
(1) The bailee must, in the safekeeping of the property bailed, take the care of the reasonable 
man in and about the safekeeping of his own property, and he must place it in a place of 
safety appropriate to such property.  
(2) He may keep it himself, or ent rust the safekeeping to a person of such reliability as he 
would entrust his own property to him.  
  
Article (968 ) 
(1) The bailee may not bail the property bailed to anoth er person without the consent of the 
bailor unless he is compelled to do so, and he must recover the property after the cause of such compulsion has ceased.  
(2) If he deposits the property with another person with the consent of the bailor, the latter 
shal l assume the obligations of the first bailee and shall become the bailee.  
  
Article (969 ) 
The bailee may not use the property bailed or create any third party right over it without the 
consent of the bailor, and if he does so and the thing is damaged or th e value thereof is 
diminished, he shall be liable therefor.  
  
Article (970)  
If the bailee travels with the property bailed without the consent of the bailor in circumstances where it was possible for him to bail it with a trustworthy person and the 
goods a re lost or damaged during the journey, he shall be liable for them, and if he travels 
with the property because there was no trustworthy person with whom he could leave it, 
and the property is lost or damaged without any wrongful act on his part, he shall not be 
liable for it, and if he returns it in good condition to the place where the bailment was made 
after the journey and it is thereafter lost or damaged without any wrongful act on his part, 
he shall not be liable. 
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  224 
 Article (971 ) 
(1) If the bailee le nds or trades in the property bailed without the consent of the bailor, he 
shall be liable for it and his liability shall not be discharged save by returning like property to 
the place at which the bailment was made if it is a fungible, or by returning the value thereof 
to the bailor, and not at the place of bailment if it is a non- fungible, and any profit shall 
belong to the bailee in the event that he has traded with it.  
(2) If he lends or trades in it with the consent of the bailor, then the property sha ll change its 
status from being bailed to being a debt owed by the bailee, and he shall not be discharged 
from it save by returning similar property if it is fungible or the value thereof if it is 
non -fungible to the bailor, and not to the place at which t he bailment was made.  
(3) If he lends or trades in part of the property bailed, he shall be liable as aforesaid in accordance with the circumstances, and the remainder of the property shall retain its status 
as property bailed.  
  
Article (972 ) 
(1) The bail ee must return the property bailed and deliver it to the bailor on demand at the 
place where the bailment was made unless the contract contains a condition to the benefit 
of both or either of the parties, in which event such condition must be observed.  
(2) If the property bailed perishes or suffers a diminution in value without any wrongful act 
or default on the part of the bailee, he must make good to the bailor such liability as he has 
come under, and must assign to him any third party rights that may hav e arisen by reason 
thereof.  
  
Article (973 ) 
The bailee must return the profits and yields of the thing bailed to the bailor.  
  
Article (974 ) 
If the property bailed is damaged in the hands of the bailee through his fault, he shall be 
liable therefor.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  225 
 Article (975 ) 
(1) If the bailee mixes the property bailed with something else from which it is impossible to 
distinguish it and the other goods are not similar to the goods bailed in type or description, 
he shall be liable therefor as soon as it becomes mixed, but if it is not impossible to distinguish it or if the mixture is with goods of a similar type and description, he shall not be 
liable therefor.  
(2) In that event, if part of the mixed goods are destroyed, they shall be divided between the 
two parties in t he proportion owned by each of them until the good has become separated 
from the damaged, and the loss shall be borne by the owners (in their respective proportions).  
  
Article (976 ) 
If the property bailed is lost or stolen from the bailee by reason of his  failure in the manner 
of safekeeping either agreed upon or dictated by custom for the safekeeping of such 
property or by his forgetting it in the place where he has left it or if he has gone somewhere 
with it notwithstanding that it was possible for him to place it in his house or with a 
trustworthy person prior to going to such other place, he shall in all circumstances be liable.  
  
Article (977 ) 
(1) If the bailee goes with the property bailed to return it to the bailor or if he sends it to him without hi s consent then in either event if it is lost or damaged in his hands or in the hands 
of the messenger while on the way he shall be liable for it.  
(2) If they are in dispute as to whether permission had been given or not, the evidence of the 
bailor on his o ath shall be preferred.  
  
Article (978 ) 
(1) If the bailee alleges that the property bailed was lost or damaged without any wrongful act on his part, that allegation shall be believed but the bailor shall have the right to demand 
that he take the oath as to  what he has alleged if he accuses him of lying or if he attributes 
lying to him, and if he refuses to take the oath in the event of an accusation of lying, he shall  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  226 
 become liable for the property bailed as soon as he so refuses, and the bailor may not be 
compelled to take the oath in return, and if the bailee refuses to take the oath if it is alleged 
that he is lying he shall not be liable until after the bailor takes the oath in return and makes a sworn statement as to the lie.  
(2) If the bailor (sic) stipulates at the time the bailment is made that he shall not be obliged 
to take the oath in an action for loss or damage, such stipulation shall not be valid. 
 
Article (979 ) 
If the bailee denies (knowledge of) the property bailed when it is demanded from him and 
the bailor produces evidence of the bailment and makes a claim for the return of the 
property, and the bailee alleges that he has returned it to him or that it was damaged 
without any wrongful act on his part, he shall be liable for it and no evidence  that it has been 
returned or damaged shall be accepted from him.  
  
Article (980 ) 
If there are several bailees and the property bailed is indivisible, it shall be permissible for it 
to be kept with one of them with the consent of the rest or kept alternately by each of them, 
and if it is divisible it shall be permissible to divide it between them, for each to keep his portion.  
  
Article (981 ) 
If the bailor goes missing and cannot be found, the bailee must safeguard the property bailed until it is ascertaine d whether the bailor is alive or dead, and if the property bailed is 
such as will perish by the passage of time, he must make an application to the judge for the 
sale thereof and must keep the price in trust with the court treasury.  
  
Article (982 ) 
(1) If two people bail property owned in common between them with another person and 
one of those two persons demands the return of his portion in the absence of the other, he  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  227 
 must return it if the property is fungible, and must refuse to return it if the propert y is 
non -fungible, unless the other of the two agrees.  
(2) If the property bailed is the subject of a dispute between the two bailors, he may not 
return the property to either of them without the consent of the other or without the order 
of the court.  
  
Article (983 ) 
(1) If the bailee dies and the actual property bailed is found in his estate, it shall be held in 
trust in the hands of the heir, and he must return it to the owner.  
(2) If the actual property bailed is not found, there shall be no liability on  the estate:  
(a) if the heir proves that the bailee has made a declaration as to what has happened to the 
property bailed, such as that it has been returned, or was lost or destroyed while in his hands 
without any wrongful act or default on his part; or  
(b) if the heir knows the property and can identify it, and shows that it was lost or destroyed 
after the death of the legator without any wrongful act or default on his part.  
(3) If the bailee dies and it is not known what has happened to the property bailed and it is 
not found in his estate, the property shall constitute a liability as against the estate, and the owner shall rank with the ordinary creditors.  
  
Article (984 ) 
(1) If the bailee dies and his heir sells the property bailed and delivers it to the purchaser and 
it is lost, the owner of the property shall have the election to hold either the seller or the purchaser liable for the value thereof as at the date of the sale if it is a non- fungible, or for 
similar property if it is fungible.  
(2) If the p roperty bailed is still in existence in the hands of the purchaser, the owner shall 
have the option as the wishes either to retrieve it and reject the sale, or to affirm the sale and 
receive the price thereof.  
  
Article (985 ) 
If there is found in the estate of the deceased property on which it is written in the hand of  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  228 
 the deceased or of the bailor that it is property bailed and is owned by the bailor, and the 
amount thereof is specified and it is found to be short of that amount, the shortfall shall be 
recoverable from the estate of the deceased if it is known that he has disposed of (part of) the property bailed.  
  
2- Obligations of the bailor  
Article (986 ) 
The bailor must pay the agreed remuneration if the bailment was for reward.  
  
Article (987 ) 
(1) The  bailor must reimburse to the bailee such monies as have been expended in the 
safekeeping of the property bailed with the permission of the bailor.  
(2) If the bailor is absent, the bailee may raise the matter before the judge for such order to be made if t he judge thinks fit.  
 
Article (988 ) 
(1) If the bailee expends money on the property bailed without the consent of the bailor or the judge, that shall be regarded as a gift.  
(2) Save that the bailee may in compelling or urgent circumstances expend money on the 
property bailed to a generally acceptable amount and shall have a recourse against the bailor for monies he has expended out of his own pocket.  
  
Article (989 ) 
(1) The bailor must bear the expenses of the return of the property bailed, and the costs of  
delivery.  
(2) He shall be liable to the bailee for any damage the latter may have suffered by reason of the property bailed unless arising out of any wrongful act or default on his part.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  229 
 Article (990 ) 
If there is a third party right over the goods bail ed and the bailee satisfies that right, he shall 
have a right of recourse against the bailor in respect thereof.  
  
Article (991 ) 
If the bailor dies, the property bailed shall be delivered to his heir unless his estate is 
insolvent, in which event the property may not be delivered without the consent of the 
judge.  
  
Part  3: Provisions relating to certain types of bailment  
Article (992 ) 
If the property bailed is a sum of money or a thing which can be destroyed by use and the bailor permits the bailee to use i t, it shall be regarded as a contract of loan.  
  
Article (993 ) 
(1) The deposit of property belonging to guests at hotels or the like shall be deemed to be accompanied by a provision of liability, and the owners of such establishments shall be 
liable for an y loss or damage occurring therein.  
(2) With regard to valuables, money or valuable securities, there shall be no liability in 
respect thereof in the absence of any wrongful act or default unless the owners of the said establishments agree to preserve them with knowledge of their value or unless they refuse 
without justificat ion to hold them in safekeeping or if they or those working under them 
have been instrumental through their own gross default in the loss suffered, and in that 
event they shall be liable up to a generally accepted extent.  
  
Article (994 ) 
(1) Guests at hote ls or the like must notify the owners of any loss or theft from them before 
they leave the establishment.  
(2) No claim of liability for loss or theft shall be heard after the expiration of six months from  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  230 
 the date the guest leaves.  
  
Article (995 ) 
(1) Eith er the bailor or the bailee may terminate the contract when he wishes, but provided 
that such termination must not be at an inappropriate time.  
(2) If the bailment is for reward, neither of the parties shall have the right to terminate it 
prior to the due date, but the bailor may require the return of the property bailed at any time if he pays the full balance of the consideration due, and there is no stipulation preventing 
him from so doing.    
  
Article (996 ) 
(1) If the bailee becomes insane without hope of cure or recovery and the bailor proves the 
bailment to the guardian or protector and the specific property is found, it shall be returned to the owner, but if it is not found then the bailor shall recover compensation out of the 
property of the insane person, on condition that he furnishes suitable security. 
(2) If the bailee recovers from his insanity and he alleges that the property bailed has been 
returned or destroyed without any wrongful act or default on his part, he shall be believed 
upon his oath and any property taken in lieu of the property bailed shall be recovered from 
the bailor or his surety.  
  
Chapter Five : Custodial Contract  
Part  1: General provisions 
Article (997 ) 
Custodianship is a contract whereby two parties in dispute entrust property to another for him to safeguard and manage it on condition that he returns it together with any yield 
therefrom to the person whose right thereto is established.  
  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  231 
 Article (998 ) 
If the contracting parties agree to plac e the property in the hands of two or more persons, it 
shall not be permissible for any one of them acting individually to keep it or to dispose of the 
yield thereof without the consent of the remaining persons.  
  
Article (999 ) 
Either of t he parties to a dispute over property may, in the absence of agreement, make an 
application to the judge in order to avert an imminent risk or in reliance on a just cause to appoint a guardian to take delivery of such property to safeguard and manage it, a nd for him 
to be entrusted with the exercise of any right which the judge regards as being in the interests of both parties.  
  
Article (1000 ) 
Judicial custodianship over waqf property shall be permissible in the following circumstances if it becomes apparent that custodianship is a necessary step for the 
preservation of the rights of the persons concerned:  
(1) if the office of trustee is vacant or if there is a dispute between the trustees or a trustee and an overseer as to the waqf property, and an action has been brought for the dismissal of 
the trustee, and in such cases the custodianship shall cease if a trustee is appointed over the waqf property, whether provisionally or finally;  
(2) if the waqf is in debt; or  
(3) if the person entitled is bankrupt and it appears that custodianship is necessary to 
preserve the rights of the creditors, in which event the custodianship shall be over his 
portion (alone) unless it is impossible to separate such portion, in which event the 
custodianship shall be over the whole of the waqf property.  
  
Article (1001)  
If the parties to the dispute do not agree upon the person of the custodian, such person shall be appointed by the court.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  232 
 Part  2: Obligations and rights of the stakeholders  
Article (1002 ) 
Property in the hands of the custodian shall be held by him in trust, and he may not in the 
exercise of his duties exceed the limit laid down for him, otherwise he will be liable.  
  
Article (1003 ) 
The agreement or the order of the court creating the custodianship shall specify  the rights, 
obligations and powers of the custodian, failing which the provisions governing bailment 
and agency shall apply to the extent that they do not conflict with the nature of custodianship and the provisions of this Part.  
  
Article (1004 ) 
The custodian must preserve the property entrusted to him, and attend to the management 
thereof, and must, in so doing, exercise the care of the reasonable man.  
  
Article (1005 ) 
The custodian may not, otherwise than in the course of safeguarding or administering the property, make any disposition thereover save with the consent of the parties to the dispute 
or by leave of the court, unless there is a compelling necessity giving rise to a fear that the produce or moveable property may be damaged or destroyed.  
  
Article (1006 ) 
The custodian shall be bound to provide the persons concerned with the necessary 
information concerning the execution of his function, and he must give an account thereof 
at the times and in the manner agreed  by the parties or ordered by the court.  
  
Article (1007 ) 
A custodian shall be entitled to proper recompense for the monies he has expended in the performance of his duties.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  233 
 Article (1008 ) 
If the custodian stipulates that he should be entitled to remunerat ion for carrying out his 
work, notwithstanding that he has not fixed the exact sum, and he is a person of a type who 
works for remuneration, he shall be entitled to just remuneration.  
  
Article (1009 ) 
The custodian may discharge himself of his functions when he wishes; provided that he gives notice to the parties concerned and continues to carry out the work he has commenced until it reaches a stage where his ceasing will not cause any prejudice to the 
parties to the dispute.  
  
Article (1010 ) 
If the custodi an dies or becomes incapable of carrying out the duties entrusted to him, or if a 
dispute arises between him and any of the parties concerned and the two parties do not 
agree to elect a substitute for him, the court may appoint a custodian appointed by it upon 
the application of one of the parties, in order to continue to carry out the task.  
  
Part  3: Termination of the custodianship  
Article (1011 ) 
Custodianship shall determine upon the completion of the work, the agreement of the 
persons concerned, or by order of the court, and the custodian must then take steps to 
return the property entrusted to him to such person as the persons concerned may agree, or 
to the person appointed by the court.  
  
Section  4: Contracts of hazard (gharar)  
Chapter One : Betting and gambling  
Article (1012 ) 
A competition (for reward) is a contract whereby a person is obliged to pay a sum of money or gives some other thing by way of agreed recompense to a person who succeeds in  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  234 
 achieving the object specified in the contract.  
  
Article (1013 ) 
Competitions with prizes shall be permissible in running, shooting, sports, or preparat ion for 
trials of strength.  
  
Article (1014 ) 
The following conditions must be satisfied for a contract of competition to be valid:  
(a) the prize must be known and the person who is obliged to give it must be specified in 
person; and  
(b) the description of the subject matter of the contract must be sufficient for the avoidance 
of uncertainty, as in a race, where the distance between the start and the finish must be 
specified, and, in the case of a shooting match, the number of shots and the winning it must be defined.  
  
Article (1015 ) 
The prize may be specified property, or a debt which is immediately payable or deferred, or 
partly payable immediately and partly deferred.  
  
Article (1016 ) 
If a race takes place for a prize, the race shall be a contract immediately binding on the participants, and neither of them may dissolve such contract save by mutual consent.  
  
Article (1017 ) 
If the competition is between two persons or groups, the prize may be provided by one of them or by a third party, and each team shall be regarded as a single person so far as 
concerns the obligation to provide the prize.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  235 
 Article (1018 ) 
If the competition is between two persons or teams and it is desired o allocate some of the 
prize to a person other than a participant, the share of such person must be less than the 
share going to the participant.  
  
Article (1019 ) 
If the prize is provided  by one of the participants or by another person with the condition 
that it should go to the winner, that shall be permissible, but if it is stipulated that the winner should have the stake prior to the other, that is not permissible because the contract would 
then be one of gambling.  
  
Article (1020 ) 
If the arrow of one of the contestants strikes an obstacle in its passage to the target, or if his 
horse or camel is struck on the face or if his whip with which he is spurring the animal is wrested from his g rasp, and the horse or camel is slowed down, he shall not be deemed in 
those circumstances to have been beaten, but if he forgets his whip before mounting or if it falls from his hand and the speed of his mount is thereby reduced, he shall be regarded as 
having been beaten.  
  
Article (1021 ) 
(1) Any contract of gambling or for a prohibited competition shall be void.  
(2) Whoever loses a bet or a prohibited competition may recover what he has paid within a period of six months commencing from the time at which he paid over what he lost, 
notwithstanding that there may be an agreement to the contrary, and he may prove his 
claim by all proper means.  
  
Chapter  Two:  Payments for life 
Article (1022 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for a person to undertake to another to pay him a periodical  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  236 
 income so long as he lives, without consideration.  
(2) If the obligation relates to teaching, medical treatment or an agreement, it must be 
performed in accordance wit h custom, unless the obligation contains a contrary stipulation.  
(3) The contract must be written in order to be valid.    
  
Article (1023 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for the obligation to pay the income to be for the life of the obligor or the obligee or  of another person.  
(2) If the obligation is silent on the point, it shall be deemed to extend for the life of the obligor, unless a contrary agreement is made.  
  
Article (1024 ) 
If the obligor does not comply with his obligation, the other party may requir e that the 
contract be enforced.  
  
Article (1025 ) 
If the income is stipulated to be for the life of the promisor and the promisor dies before the 
obligee and the due time for payment of the periodical income has not yet arrived, the 
obligee shall receive a  pro rata part of the income for the period which had expired as at the 
death of the promisor, within the customary limits, and he shall have recourse against the 
estate in the same manner as for a bequest in the absence of a contrary agreement.  
  
Chapter Three : Contracts of insurance  
Part  1: General provisions 
Article (1026 ) 
(1) Insurance is a contract whereby the assured and the insurer cooperate in facing the insured risks or events, and whereby the assured pays to the insurer a specified sum or 
periodical instalments, and if the risk or the event set out in the contract materialises, the 
insurer pays to the assured or the person stipulated as the beneficiary a sum of money or a  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  237 
 regular income or any other pecuniary right.  
(2) The law shall lay down provisions governing those bodies which may carry on insurance 
business and matters relating to their legal form, the manner of their establish ­ment, the 
manner in which they carry on their business, and supervision thereof, in such a manner as 
to achieve the cooperative aims of insurance, and the definitive laws and basic principles 
shall not conflict with the Islamic Shari'a.  
(3) If the law referred to in foregoing paragraph is not passed, th e rules and customs 
currently in force shall remain so with regard to insurance and the bodies which carry on the 
business of insurance.  
  
Article (1027 ) 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the foregoing Article, it shall be permissible to effect 
insurance against risks arising out of personal accidents, accidents at work, theft, breach of 
trust, insurance for vehicles, civil liability, and all events which by custom and the special 
laws may be insured against.  
  
Article (1028 ) 
(1) Any of the following p rovisions appearing in a policy of insurance shall be void:  
(a) any provision which provides that the right to insurance shall lapse by reason of a breach 
of the law unless the breach involves a felony or a deliberate misdemeanour;  
(b) a provision whereby the right of the assured shall lapse by reason of his delay in giving 
notice of the incident insured against to the parties which should be notified or to provide 
documents in the event that it appears that there is a reasonable excuse for the delay;  
(c) a ny printed clause not shown conspicuously, if it relates to any circumstance leading to 
the avoidance of the contract or the lapse of the right of the assured;  
(d) an arbitration clause unless contained in a special agreement separate from the general prin ted conditions in the policy of insurance; and  
(e) any arbitrary clause breach of which it appears would have no effect on the occurrence 
of the incident insured against.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  238 
 Article (1029 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for the in surer to be exempted from liability if the beneficiary has 
paid an indemnity to the injured party without the consent of the insurer.  
(2) It shall not be permissible to rely on such agreement if it is shown that the payment of 
the indemnity was made for th e benefit of the insurer.  
  
Article (1030 ) 
It shall be permissible for the insurer to take the place of the assured in respect of any indemnity paid to him for loss, in bringing the claim of the assured against the person who 
caused the loss out of which the liability of the insurer arose, unless the person who caused 
the loss was an ascendant or descendant of the assured, or his spouse, or somebody living in 
one household with him, or a person for whose acts the assured is responsible.  
  
Article (1031 ) 
Special provisions governing various contracts of insurance not contained in this law shall 
be dealt with by special laws.  
 
Part  2: Effects of the contract  
1- Obligations of the assured  
Article (1032 ) 
The assured shall be obliged as follows:  
(a) to pay the s ums agreed at the time stipulated in the contract;  
(b) to declare, at the time the contract is made, all information knowledge of which is of 
concern to the insurer to estimate the risk which he is assuming;  
(c) to notify the insurer of any matters occurri ng during the period of the contract which lead 
to such risks being increased.  
  
Article (1033 ) 
(1) If the assured acting in bad faith conceals any matter or provides incorrect information  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  239 
 such as to lessen the degree of t he risk insured against, or to vary the subject matter thereof, 
or if he fraudulently fails to discharge any obligation he has undertaken, the insurer may 
require that the contract be cancelled, and he shall be entitled to keep any instalments which fell d ue prior to such requirement.  
(2) If fraud or bad faith is disproved, then the insurer must, when he requires that the 
contract be cancelled, return to the assured the premiums he has paid, or return such part 
thereof in respect of which the insurer was no t on risk.  
  
2- Obligations of the insurer 
Article (1034 ) 
The insurer must pay the indemnity or the sum due to the assured or the beneficiary in the 
manner agreed upon when the risk materialises or when the time specified in the contract 
comes.  
  
Article (1035 ) 
The obligation of an insurer under an insurance against civil liability shall only become effective when the injured party makes a claim against the beneficiary after the occurrence 
of the incident out of which such liability arose.  
  
Article (1036 ) 
(1) Claims arising out of contracts of insurance shall not be heard after the expiration of three years from the occurrence of the incident out of which the claim arose, or from the 
person concerned having knowledge of the occurrence thereof.  
(2) That time  limit shall, in the event of the assured concealing particulars relating to the risk 
assured or providing false particulars, only begin to run as from the date the insurer had 
knowledge thereof.  
  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  240 
 Part  3: Special provisions relating to cert ain types of insurance  
1- Fire insurance  
Article (1037 ) 
An insurer under a fire insurance shall have the following liabilities: 
(a) for damage arising out of the fire notwithstanding that the fire arose out of earthquake, 
storm, winds, hurricane, household  explosions and disturbances caused by the falling of 
flying objects and other flying craft, and all matters which are customarily regarded as falling 
within that type of insurance;  
(b) for damage which is the direct and certain result of the fire;  
(c) for damage sustained by the property insured through steps taken in the course of rescue 
to prevent the spread of the fire; and  
(d) for loss or disappearance of property insured during the fire, unless it is proved that that 
was the result of theft.  
  
Article (1038 ) 
An insurer shall be liable for fire damage arising through the error of the assured or the 
beneficiary.  
  
Article (1039 ) 
An insurer shall not be liable for damage deliberatel y or fraudulently caused by the assured 
or the beneficiary, notwithstanding any agreement to the contrary.  
  
Article (1040 ) 
An insurer shall be liable for fire damage caused by those working under the assured, 
whatever may be the nature of their default.  
  
Article (1041 ) 
The insurer shall be liable for damage arising out of the fire notwithstanding that such -fire 
arose out of a defect in the property insured   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  241 
 Article (1042 ) 
(1) Any person who insures property or an interest with more than one insurer must notify 
all of them of the other contracts of insurance, the amount of each of them, and the names 
of the other insurers.  
(2) If there are several insurers, the amount of the insurance must not exceed the value of 
the property or interest insured.  
  
Article (1043 ) 
If insurance is placed over property or an interest with more than one insurer in sums 
exceeding in the aggregate the value of the property or interest insured, each of the insurers 
shall be bound to pay a part equivalent to the proportion of the sum insured to the total of 
the contracts of insurance, without the amount payable to the assured exceeding the value 
of the fire damage.  
  
Article (1044 ) 
Fire insurance placed over the moveable property of the assured as a whole which at the 
time of the fire is in places occupied by him, shall also cover property owned by the 
members of his family and persons working in his service if they are living with h im in one 
household.  
  
Article (1045 ) 
(1) If the property insured is encumbered by a mortgage or other security in rem, such rights 
shall attach to the insurance money due to the assured under the policy of the insurance.  
(2) If such rights are registered or have been notified to the insurer by registered letter, it 
shall not be permissible for him to pay the money he owes to the assured save by the consent of those obligees.  
     
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  242 
 2- Life Insurance  
Article (1046 ) 
The insurer u nder a policy of life insurance must pay to the assured or the beneficiary the 
sums agreed upon the occurrence of the insured event or at the time stipulated in the 
contract, without the need for proof of any loss suffered by the assured or the beneficiary . 
  
Article (1047 ) 
In order for there to be a valid life insurance for the life of another, he must consent thereto 
in writing prior to the placing of the insurance, and if he is not of legal capacity, then the 
insurance shall be valid only upon the consent of his legal representative.  
  
Article (1048 ) 
(1) The insurer shall not be obliged to pay the amount of the insurance if the assured has 
committed suicide, and he must return to the beneficiary a sum equivalent to the reserve 
value of the insurance unless the beneficiary proves that the purpose of the suicide was not to obtain the insurance money, and in that event the premiums must be repaid, with a 
deduction for proper expenses.  
(2) If the suicide occurs without choice or unconsciously or through any ot her cause leading 
to loss of free choice, the insurer shall be bound to pay the full sum insured, and the 
beneficiary must prove that the life assured was not in possession of free choice at the time 
of the suicide.  
  
Article (1049 ) 
(1) The insurer shall b e discharged of his obligation in the case of insurance over the life of 
another where the assured has deliberately caused the death of a third person or if the death 
has been incited by the assured.  
(2) If the insurance is in favour of a person other than  the assured and such person 
deliberately causes his death or if the death takes place at his instigation, he shall be 
deprived of the benefit of the insurance money.  If the event is a mere attempt to cause  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  243 
 death, the assured shall have the right to substitute an alternative beneficiary.  
  
Article (1050 ) 
(1) The assured may stipulate that the insurance money be paid to persons specified in the 
contract or to such persons as he may thereafter specify. 
(2) If the insurance is in favour of the spouse, childre n, descendants or heirs of the assured, 
the insurance money shall be payable to any person who proves that he falls within that 
description at the time of the death of the assured, and if the heirs are the beneficiaries, the 
insurance money shall be divide d between them in accordance with their lawful portions in 
the estate.  
  
Article (1051 ) 
An assured who is bound to pay periodical premiums may terminate the contract at any time provided that he notifies the insurer of his intention in writing, and he shal l be released 
of the obligation to pay subsequent premiums.  
  
Article (1052 ) 
(1) Any erroneous information as to the age of the life assured or an error therein shall not 
result in the policy of insurance becoming void unless the true age of the assured exceeds 
the limit laid down in the insurance policy.  
(2) If the effect of the erroneous information or the stake is such that a lesser premium has been paid than should have been paid, the insurance must be reduced to the proportion 
which the agreed premium bears to the premium which should have been paid on the basis of the true age.  
(3) If the agreed premium is greater than would have been payable on the basis of the true age of the life assured, the insurer must return the excess which has been paid for hi m and 
reduce the subsequent premiums to a level appropriate to the true age.  
 
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  244 
 Article (1053 ) 
If a life insurer pays the amount of the insurance, he shall not have the right to become 
subrogated to the rights of the assured or the beneficiary with regard  to the person who 
caused or was responsible for the insured event.  
  
Article (1054 ) 
The insurance money receivable by the assured or the beneficiary at the end of the period 
agreed in the contract must not contain any usurious interest.   
Article (1055 ) 
The sums agreed to be payable on the death of the assured shall not be included in his 
estate.  
  
Section 5 : Contracts of personal guarantee  
Chapter One : 1 Suretyship  
Part  1: Elements of suretyship  
Article (1056 ) 
Suretyship is the joining of the liability of  a person called the surety with the liability of the 
obligor in the performance of his obligations.  
  
Article (1057 ) 
(1) Suretyship may arise through use of that word, or words indicating a guarantee.  
(2) For a suretyship to arise and to be effective it i s sufficient for the surety to make the offer, 
unless the obligee rejects it.  
  
Article (1058 ) 
It is a prerequisite of a suretyship arising that the surety should be competent to make gifts.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  245 
 Article (1059 ) 
The suretyship shall be void if the surety makes  a condition in his own favour that he should 
have the option to make it conditional.  
  
Article (1060 ) 
It is valid for a suretyship to be accomplished, or restricted by a valid condition, or 
dependent upon an appropriate condition or for it only to become operative in the future or 
for a limited period.  
  
Article (1061 ) 
In order for the suretyship t o be valid, the principal debtor must be indebted to the obligee in 
respect of a debt or property or a known person and it should be within the capacity of the surety to discharge the obligation.  
  
Article (1062 ) 
Suretyship in respect of the expenses of a wife or relatives shall be valid notwithstanding that there has been no judgment or agreement thereon.  
  
Article (1063 ) 
The suretyship of the agent of the seller to a purchaser in respect of the payment of the price at which he was appointed to sell the pr operty is invalid, and there shall be no suretyship on 
the part of a guardian with regard to the price at which he sells the property of the infant, nor shall there be any suretyship of a trustee for the price for which he has sold waqf property.  
  
Article (1064 ) 
(1) Suretyship for a person suffering from a terminal illness shall not be valid if the debtor 
owes a debt greater than the amount of his property.  
(2) Suretyship shall be valid if the debt is not greater than the amount of the property, and  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  246 
 the pr ovisions relating to wills shall apply thereto.  
  
Article (1065 ) 
Suretyship conditional on the discharge of the principal obligor is an assignment.  An 
assignment which provides that the assignor should not be discharged is a suretyship. 
  
Article (1066 ) 
The surety under suretyship subject to a suspensive condition or a deferred suretyship may 
revoke the suretyship before the obligation becomes actual.  
  
Article (1067 ) 
The suretyship shall cover the incidentals of the debt and costs of claiming unless the contrary has been agreed.  
  
Part  2: Certain types of suretyship  
1- Securing the attendance of a person  
Article (1068 ) 
(1) Surety for the person obliges the guarantor to  produce the person guaranteed at the time 
stipulated at the request of the beneficiary of the guarantee, and if he does not do so it shall 
be permissible for the judge to impose an exemplary fine, but it shall be permissible for him to exempt him if he pr oves that he was unable to secure the attendance of the person 
guaranteed.  
(2) If the surety for a person has undertaken to pay a specified sum by way of a penalty 
clause in the event that he does not secure the attendance of the person guaranteed, he shal l 
be bound to pay that sum, and the judge may exempt him from it either in whole or in part if 
it appears that that course is justified.  
  
Article (1069 ) 
If the surety undertakes to pay the debt upon his failure to deliver the person guaranteed, he  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  247 
 must  pay it if he fails to deliver up the person.  
  
Article (1070 ) 
(1) A surety for a person shall be released if he delivers the person guaranteed to the 
beneficiary, or if he performs, that for which he stood surety.  
(2) He shall likewise be released upon th e death of the person guaranteed, but shall not be 
released upon the death of the obligee beneficiary, whose heirs shall have the right to require the surety to deliver up the person guaranteed at the time specified.  
  
Article (1071 ) 
The person guaranteed must be delivered at the place specified by the surety, and if no place 
is specified then he shall be delivered up at the place where the contract was made.  
  
Article (1072 ) 
If the surety has paid what is due by virtue of the absence of the person guarante ed and it is 
impossible to secure his attendance and it is then proved that the person guaranteed died 
before the payment was made, the surety shall recover what he has paid.  
  
Article (1073 ) 
If it does not appear from the contract of guarantee that it is a guarantee for property or guarantee for a person and there is no circumstantial evidence either way, it shall be 
presumed to be a guarantee for property, and if the surety claims that the intention was that 
it should be a surety for a person and the obli gee claims that the intention was that it was a 
surety for property, the evidence of the guarantor on his oath shall be preferred.  
  
Article (1074 ) 
A husband may revoke a surety for the person if it was issued by his wife without his 
consent notwithstandin g that the debt secured is less than one- third of her property.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  248 
 2- Darak Suretyship (guarantee to give indemnity if goods sold are owned by 
a third party)  
Article (1075 ) 
A darak suretyship is a suretyship to pay the price of property sold if there are th ird party 
rights subsisting in that property. 
  
Article (1076 ) 
No claim shall be made against the surety of a seller by way of darak unless judgment is given that a third party right subsists in the thing sold and the seller is ordered to return the 
price.  
  
Part  3: Effects of suretyship  
1- Between the surety and the obligee 
Article (1077 ) 
(1) The surety must discharge his obligation when the time falls due. (2) If the obligation is conditional , it must be discharged when the condition is fulfilled.  
  
Article (1078 ) 
(1) The obligee may claim against the principal obligor or the surety, or may claim against them both.  
(2) If the surety has a surety the obligee may claim against either of them as he wishes.  
(3) Provided that if he makes a claim against one of them, his right to claim against the others shall not lapse.  
  
Article (1079 ) 
It shall be permissible for the suretyship to be conditional upon the discharge of the debt out of the property of the obligor deposited with the surety, on condition that the obligee agrees 
thereto.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  249 
 Article (1080 ) 
If the suretyship is unqualified, the obligation of the surety shall follow the obligation of the 
principal obligor, whether immediate or deferred.  
  
Article (1081 ) 
If one of them guarantees an immediate debt by way of deferred suretyship, the debt as against both the surety and the principal obligor shall be deferred unless the surety 
stipulates that the deferment shall apply to himself alone or the obligee stipulat es that the 
debt should be deferred with regard to the surety only.  In that event the debt shall not be 
regarded as deferred with regard to the principal obligor.  
  
Article (1082 ) 
If a debt is secured by a security in rem prior to the suretyship arising, and the surety has made it a condition that recourse should be had against the principal obligor first, it shall not be permissible to execute against the property of the surety prior to executing against the 
property standing as security for the debt.  
   
Article (1083 ) 
It shall be permissible for the surety of a surety to make it a condition that the obligee should 
have recourse against the other surety first.  If the surety or the obligor dies before a deferred 
debt falls due, the debt shall be recoverabl e out of the estate of the deceased.  
  
Article (1084 ) 
If the surety or the debtor dies before a deferred debt falls due, the debt shall be payable out 
of the estate of the deceased.  
  
Article (1085 ) 
If there are several sureties for one debt it shall be permissible to make a claim against each  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  250 
 of them for the whole debt unless they have all become sureties under one contract which 
does not provide that they should be jointly liable, and no claim may b e made against any of 
them save in respect of the amount of his share.  
  
Article (1086 ) 
If the sureties are jointly liable as between themselves and one of them discharges the debt 
upon its falling due, he shall have the right to have recourse against all of the remaining 
sureties for his share of the debt and his share in the proportion of any one of them who is 
bankrupt.  
  
Article (1087 ) 
Any suretyship imposed by a provision in the law or by an order of the court shall, upon 
becoming unqualified, have the effect of the sureties being jointly liable.  
  
Article (1088 ) 
If the creditor receives satisfaction of his debt by (accepting) another thing, the principal obligor and the surety shall both be discharged unless third party rights subsist in that thing.  
  
Article (1089 ) 
If his debtor becomes bankrupt, the creditor must prove for his debt in the bankruptcy otherwise his right of recourse against the surety shall lapse to the extent of the loss 
sustained by his not having so done. 
 
Article (1090 ) 
(1) The sure ty shall not have any right of recourse against the principal obligor in respect of 
any obligation which he has discharged on his behalf unless the suretyship arose at the request or with the consent of the principal obligor, and the surety has discharged the 
obligation.  
(2) He shall not have any right of recourse in respect of early payment of a deferred debt  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  251 
 until such time as the debt would have fallen due.  
 
Article (1091)  
(1) The obligee must deliver to the surety upon dischar ge by him of the debt all necessary 
papers to enable him to exercise his right of recourse against the principal obligor.  
(2) If the debt is secured by a security over other property, the obligee must release it to the 
surety if it is a chattel, or transfe r his rights to him if the property is real property, and 
provided that the surety shall bear the costs of such transfer, and may have recourse for 
those costs against the principal obligor.  
  
Article (1092 ) 
If a debt is due, the creditor must claim for it  within six months from the date on which it fell 
due, otherwise the surety shall be deemed to have been discharged.  
  
2- Between the surety and the principal obligor  
Article (1093 ) 
(1) If the surety gives any other thing in lieu of the debt, then his reco urse as against the 
principal obligor shall be for that which he stood surety for and not for that which he in fact gave.  
(2) If the obligee accepts a proportion of the debt in settlement, then the recourse shall be 
only for the amount paid by way of settl ement and not for the entire debt.  
  
Article (1094 ) 
(1) If the principal obligor pays the debt before the surety pays it or if he learns of any reason preventing the obligee from making a claim, he must notify the surety, and if he does not do 
so and the s urety discharges the debt, he may then at his election have recourse against the 
principal obligor or the obligee.  
(2) If a claim is made against the surety he must join the principal obligor therein, and if he 
does not do so it shall be permissible for th e principal obligor to raise as against him any 
defences which it would have been competent for him to raise in the claim brought by the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  252 
 obligee.  
  
Article (1095 ) 
A surety for property or for the delivery up of the body of a person may make an application 
for an order preventing the person for whom he stands surety from travelling abroad if the 
suretyship arose through his order and there is evidence giving rise to a fear that the surety 
will suffer loss.  
  
Article (1096 ) 
The surety shall have a right of re course against the principal obligor for expenses incurred 
by him in carrying out his obligations under the suretyship.  
  
Article (1097 ) 
If the principal obligors are jointly liable, then the person standing surety for them shall have the right to require all of them to have recourse against any one of them for the total amount 
of the debt which he has discharged.  
  
Article (1098 ) 
It shall not be permissible for a surety to receive any consideration for his suretyship, and if he does so he must return it to the owner, and his capacity as surety shall lapse if he accepts 
such thing from the obligee or the principal obligor or from a third par ty with the knowledge 
of the obligee, and if he accepts it without his knowledge he shall be bound by his suretyship 
and shall be obliged to return that which was given in consideration.  
  
Part  4: Termination of suretyship  
Article (1099 ) 
Suretyship shall terminate as follows: - 
(a) by discharge of the debt;  
(b) by the loss of the thing held by the person for whom he stands surety by reason of force  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  253 
 majeure and before a claim is made;  
(c) by the cessation of the contract by virtue of which the right against t he principal obligor 
arose;  
(d) if the obligee discharges the surety from his suretyship or the principal obligor from the 
debt;  
(e) upon the death of the principal obligor;  
(f) by the principal obligor being brought to the place of delivery after the deferred period 
matures, notwithstanding that the obligee refuses to accept delivery, unless he is unlawfully 
prevented from so doing;  
(g) by bringing the principal obligor before the period falls due, and the obligee suffers no loss through taking delivery of  him; and  
(h) by handing over the principal obligor himself.  
  
Article (1100 ) 
The surety for the price of a thing sold shall be discharged from his suretyship if the sale is 
voided or if there is defect in title in the thing sold or if it  is rejected by reason of a defect.  
  
Article (1101 ) 
If the surety or the principal obligor makes a composition with the obligee for part of the 
debt, they shall both be discharged from the balance, and if it is stipulated that the surety 
alone should be discharged, the obligee may at his election take the amount agreed upon from the surety and the balance from the principal obligor, or he may if he wishes take no action against the sure ty and make a claim for the whole debt against the principal obligor.  
  
Article (1102 ) 
The rights of the obligee shall be transferred to his heirs upon his death.  
  
Article (1103 ) 
If the obligee dies and he leaves the whole of his estate to the principal obligor, the surety  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  254 
 shall be discharged from his suretyship, and if he has another heir the surety shall be 
discharged in respect of the share bequeathed to the principal obligor only.  
  
Article (1104 ) 
No claim may be made against a surety in respect of a s uretyship for a limited period save 
for the obligations arising during the period of the suretyship.  
  
Article (1105 ) 
(1) If the surety or the original creditor assigns the debt secured or part thereof to another person by way of assignment accepted by the assignee or the debtor whose debt was so 
assigned, the principal obligor and the surety shall be discharged to the extent of such 
assignment.  
(2) If it is a condition of the assignment that the surety alone should be discharged, he alone 
shall be discharg ed to the exclusion of the principal obligor.  
 
 
Chapter Two : Assignments  
Part  1: The creation of an assignment  
Article (1106 ) 
An assignment is the transfer of a debt and claim from the liability of the transferor to the transferee.  
  
Article (1107 ) 
An assignment is an immediately binding contract unless one of the parties reserves to 
himself the option to rescind.  
  
Article (1108 ) 
(1) An assignment shall be limited or absolute.  
(2) A limited assignment is one the execution of which is restricted to a  (particular) debt 
owned by the transferor to the responsibility of the transferee or (liability in respect of)  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  255 
 particular property in his possession by way of trust or guarantee.  
(3) An absolute assignment is one which is not restricted to any of the fore going, even 
though such (debt or property) may be in existence.  
  
Article (1109 ) 
(1) In order for an assignment to be valid, there must be the consent of the transferor, the 
transferee, and the creditor.  
(2) A transfer made between the transferor and the t ransferee is dependent upon the 
consent of the creditor.  
  
Article (1110 ) 
In order for an assignment to be valid, the transferor must be indebted to the creditor, but it is not necessary that the transferee be indebted to the transferor.  If he consents to the 
transfer, he shall be bound by the debt to the creditor.  
  
Article (1111) 
An assignment by a person having an entitlement in respect of a waqf to his creditor shall be 
valid if it is an assignment limited to the amount due from the guardian of the waq f if the 
accrued yield of the waqf is in his hands prior to the assignment.  
  
Article (1112 ) 
The consent of a father or guardian to an assignment to a third party shall be permissible if it 
benefits the minor in that the transferee is more solvent than the transferor, but shall not be 
permissible if he is equally or nearly equally as solvent as the tr ansferor.  
  
Article (1113 ) 
In addition to the general conditions, the following conditions must also be satisfied in order 
for an assignment to be valid: 
(a) it must be completed and dependent on no condition other than an appropriate or  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  256 
 customary condition, nor must any future contract be dependent on it;  
(b) the performance thereof must not be deferred to an unknown future date;  
(c) it must be limited in time to a specific time limit;  
(d) the property transferred must be a known debt which is capable of being satisfied;  
(e) the property transferred to the transferee in a restricted transfer must be a debt or, 
specific property which cannot be compounded, and both types of property must be equal 
in type, amount and description; and 
(f) it must not involve a ny conditional or substantial additional consideration in favour of 
any of the parties, and the assignment shall be unaffected by such additional consideration 
agreed upon after the assignment was made, and it shall not be payable.  
  
Article (1114 ) 
(1) An assignment shall be void if one of the conditions necessary therefor is not present, 
and the debt shall revert to the transferor.  
(2) If the transferee has made payment to the creditor before it becomes apparent that the 
transfer is void, he shall have the  option of recourse against either the transferor or the 
creditor.  
  
Article (1115 ) 
A transfer shall become void upon the reason for the debt transferred or the reason for the 
transfer itself becoming void.  
  
Part  2: Effects of an assignment 
1- Between the  creditor and the transferee  
Article (1116 ) 
The creditor shall have the right to make a claim against the transferee, and the transferor shall be discharged from the debt and claim together if the transfer is validly made.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  257 
 Article (1117 ) 
The debt shall be transferred to the transferee retaining the same characteristics as it had in 
the hands of the transferor.  If it is immediately payable, it shall remain immediately payable 
after the transfer, and if it is deferred, it shall retain its d eferred status.  
  
Article (1118 ) 
It shall be permissible for the creditor and the transferee after the assignment is made to 
agree mutually to part of the debt or less thereof or a deferment of an immediately payable debt or to the immediate payment of the deferred debt or to take some other consideration 
for the debt unless the same amounts to riba al -nasi'a (see Article 733(4)).  
  
Article (1119 ) 
The debt transferred shall retain all of the guarantees attaching thereto despite the fact that the person of t he debtor has changed, but nevertheless a guarantor, whether in rem or in 
personam, shall not remain liable to the creditor unless he has agreed to the transfer.  
  
Article (1120 ) 
The transferee may, vis -à-vis the creditor, rely on all defences relating to the debt which he 
would have had as against the transferor, and he may rely on all defences available to the 
transferor vis -à-vis the creditor.  
  
2- Between the transferor and the transferee  
Article (1121 ) 
The transferor shall have the right to claim against the transferee for any debt or property 
owed by him if the transfer is not restricted specifically to either of them, and the transferee 
shall not have the right to detain such property until making paym ent to the creditor.  
  
Article (1122 ) 
The right of the transferor to claim against the transferee for the property of his that the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  258 
 latter has by way of debt or specific property shall lapse if the transfer is restricted to either 
of such type of property and the conditions thereof are satisfied, and the transferee shall not 
be discharged as against the creditor if he pa ys either of them to the transferor.  
  
Article (1123 ) 
It shall not be permissible for the transferee in a valid assignment of either type to refuse to 
make payment to the creditor notwithstanding that the transferor may have recovered his 
debt from the tra nsferee or retrieved his property held by the transferee.  
  
Article (1124 ) 
(1) If an absolute assignment is made with the consent of the transferor and if a debt is owed to him by the transferee, there shall be a set -off of his debt after payment.  
(2) If h e is owed no debt by him, the transferee shall have recourse after payment.  
  
3- Between the creditor and the transferor  
Article (1125 ) 
The transferor must deliver to the creditor the document of title relating to the obligation 
transferred and any necessa ry evidence or means to enable him to obtain his right.  
  
Article (1126 ) 
If the transferor guarantees to the creditor the solvency of the transferee, such guarantee relates only to his solvency at the time of the transfer unless a contrary agreement is mad e. 
  
Article (1127 ) 
(1) If the transferee dies before discharge of the debt under a limited transfer, the creditor shall be entitled to the property owed by the transferee or in his possession during the 
lifetime of the transferor.  
(2) If a debt of either type being transferred is deferred and the transferor dies, that deferred date shall hold good but shall be advanced to the date of the death of the transferee.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  259 
   
 
Article (1128 ) 
(1) A limited transfer sh all be void if the debt lapses or if there are third party rights in the 
specific property arising through some prior matter, and the creditor shall have a recourse in 
respect of his right against the transferor. 
(2) A limited transfer shall not be void if  the debt lapses or third party rights arise in the 
specific property by virtue of an occurrence taking place after the transfer, and the transferee 
shall have a recourse against the transferor, after making payment, in respect of what he has 
paid.  
  
Article (1129 ) 
The creditor shall have recourse against the transferor in the following circumstances:  
(a) if the assignment is cancelled by the agreement of the parties thereto;  
(b) if the transferee denies the assignment, and there is no evidence to prove it,  and he 
swears that it is non- existent; or  
(c) if, in the case of a limited assignment, the specific property is lost and is not guaranteed.  
  
4- Between the creditor and third parties  
Article (1130 ) 
(1) If there are several assignments in respect of one r ight the first assignment shall take 
priority and be effective with regard to third party rights.  
(2) An assignment shall not be effective with regard to third parties unless official notice 
thereof is given to the transferee or is accepted by him by a doc ument of certain date.  
  
Article (1131 ) 
(1) If the property in question is impounded while in the hands of the transferee before the 
transfer becomes effective as against third parties, then the transfer shall, with regard to the 
impounding party, have the  status of an impoundment made by another person.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  260 
 (2) In that event, if the impounding takes place after the transfer has become valid as against 
third parties, the debt shall be divided between the earlier impounding party, the creditor, 
and the latter i mpounding party, by way of division as between creditors, but provided that 
there shall be taken from the share of the latter impounding party such amount as 
supplements the value of the assignment due to the creditor.  
  
Part  3: Termination of the assignment  
Article (1132 ) 
An assignment shall terminate by the subject matter thereof being discharged to the 
creditor, either in fact or de jure.  
  
Book Three : Original Rights In Rem  
Section 1 : Rights of ownership  
Chapter  One : The right of ownership generally 
Part  1: Scope, means (of acquisition), and protection  
Article (1133 ) 
(1) The right of ownership is the power of the owner to dispose absolutely of his property, whether of the property itself, or of the benefit or exploitation of it.  
(2) The owner of a thing alone has the right to the beneficial use of the thing owned, and to 
its yield, fruits and produce, and to dispose of it in any manner permitted under the law.  
  
Article (1134 ) 
(1) The owner of a thing owns that which is regarded as the essential elements of it if such 
cannot be separated from it without the thing being destroyed, damaged or altered.  
(2) Any person who owns land owns that is above and beneath it to the extent useful in 
enjoying it, upwards and downwards, unless the law or an ag reement provide to the 
contrary.  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  261 
   
Article (1135 ) 
(1) No person may be deprived of ownership without lawful cause.  
(2) Expropriation of ownership for the public benefit shall be against just compensation and 
in accordance with the provisions of the law.  
  
Part  2: Restrictions on rights of ownership  
1- General provisions  
Article (1136 ) 
The owner may dispose of his property absolutely unless his disposition causes gross harm to another or is contrary to the laws and regulations relating to public or private interests.  
  
Article (1137 ) 
Gross harm is that which is causative of the weakening or destruction of a building or which 
prevents essential use, i.e.  the benefits intended, being made of a building.  
  
Article (1138 ) 
If a third party right subsists in property, the owner may not dispose of it in such a way as to harm the owner of that right, save with his consent.  
 
2- Restrictions on neighbours  
Article (1139 ) 
To impede the passage of light to a neighbour shall be deemed to be gross harm, and no 
person shall have the right to make a building whereby the windows of his neighbour's 
house are blocked in such a way as to prevent the passage of light to him, otherwis e it shall 
be permissible for the neighbour to require that the building be removed to remove the 
damage.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  262 
 Article (1140 ) 
If a person has property which he is lawfully enjoying and another person makes a new 
building close to it which is harmed by the fo rmer position, the person making the new 
building shall not have the right to claim for damages arising therefrom, and he shall be 
responsible for the.  elimination of such damage.  
  
Article (1141 ) 
(1) The owner of the air space or the benefit thereof through which the branches of another person's tree extends shall have the right to require the removal of that which extends into 
his air space, notwithstanding that no harm may be caused to him thereby, and if he refuses 
he shall give an indemnity for any damage arising by reason of it and he may, without the 
need for a court order, remove that which extends into his property even by cutting it if 
there is no other way of removing it, and he shall not be liable.  
(2) This provision shall apply to the roots of a tree extending into another's land.  
  
Article (1142 ) 
The owner of a building may require that his neighbour be prevented from planting a tree 
next to his building if the tree is of a kind that has spreading roots, and he may require that it 
be u prooted if it has been planted.  
  
Article (1143 ) 
(1) A neighbour may not compel his neighbour to put up a wall or anything else on the boundary of his property nor to cede part of the wall or the ground on which the wall stands.  
(2) The owner of a wall may  not destroy it without strong justification if to do so would 
cause damage to the neighbour whose property is screened by the wall.  
  
Article (1144 ) 
(1) An owner may not excessively exercise his right to an extent causing harm to the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  263 
 property of the neigh bour.  
(2) A neighbour shall not have recourse against his neighbour for the customary and 
unavoidable detriments of neighbourhood, but may only require that such detriments be removed if they exceed the customary extent, providing that regard therein shall  be had to 
custom and the nature of the real property, the location of the properties in relation to each 
other, and the purpose for which they have been appropriated.  A permission issued by the 
competent authorities shall not derogate from the exercise of that right.  
 
3- Restriction on rights of the disponee  
Article (1145 ) 
The owner may not, in making a disposition, whether by contract or bequest, impose 
conditions restricting the rights of the disponee unless such conditions are lawful and the 
purpose th ereof is the protection of a lawful interest in the disponor or the disponee or a 
third party, for a limited period.  
  
Article (1146 ) 
Any condition preventing the disponee from disposing (of the subject matter of the 
disposition) shall be void unless the c onditions laid down in the foregoing Article are met.  
  
4- Rights of way  
Article (1147 ) 
A private road, like jointly owned property, belongs to the persons who have a right of passage over it, and no person enjoying such right may build anything upon it without the 
permission of the others.  
  
Article (1148 ) 
(1) Persons passing along a public way shall have the right to enter a private w ay if 
necessary.  
(2) The owners of a private way may not agree to sell it, divide it, or block the entrance to it.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  264 
   
Article (1149 ) 
No persons other than those together owning a private way may open doors open it, or pass 
over it.  
  
Article (1150 ) 
If one of the owners of a private way blocks his door leading on to it, his right to pass over it shall not lapse and it shall be permissible for him and his successors to reopen it.  
  
Article (1151 ) 
The costs of repairing a private way shall be borne by a ll of the owners in proportion to the 
benefit each derives from it.  
  
Part  3: Co-ownership  
1- General provisions  
Article (1152 ) 
Without prejudice to the provisions relating to shares in an inheritance, each heir shall, if 
two or more acquire ownership of a thing by virtue of one of the ways by which ownership 
may be acquired without splitting the share of each of them in it, be joint owners and the 
shares of each of them shall be counted as equal in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary.  
  
Article (1153 ) 
(1) Each of the partners in property may dispose of his share as he wishes without the 
consent of the remaining partners, on condition that the rights of the other partners are not 
prejudiced.  
(2) If the disposition is of a discrete part of co -owned property and that part does not, at the 
time of the division, fall to the lot of the disponor, the right of the disponee shall as from the 
time of the disposition be transferred to the part allotted to the disponor by way of division,  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  265 
 if the disponee did no t know that the disponor did not own the property disposed of 
separately at the time of the contract, and he shall likewise have the right to cancel the 
disposition.  
Article (1154 ) 
A co -owner of property owned in common may not dispose of his share without  the consent 
of the other co- owner if the property has blended and merged.  
  
Article (1155 ) 
(1) In the absence of any agreement to the contrary, the management of property owned in 
common shall vest jointly in the co- owners.  
(2) If one of the co- owners und ertakes the management without any objection from the 
remainder, he shall be deemed to be their agent.  
  
Article (1156 ) 
(1) The wishes of the majority of the co- owners as to the management of the property shall 
be binding upon them all, and a majority s hall be determined by the proportion of shares.  
(2) If the co -owners do not agree, they may elect a manager and may lay down rules for the 
management and enjoyment of the property which will apply to all of the co- owners and 
their successors, whether gener al or special, and any of them may apply to the judge to take 
such steps as are necessary for the preservation of the property, and to appoint a manager 
over it.  
  
Article (1157 ) 
(1) Co -owners who own at least three quarters of the co- owned property may decide, in 
order to enhance the benefit of that property, to make basic changes and to alter the 
purpose for which it was intended beyond the scope of ordinary management, provided that 
they notify their decisions to the remainder of the co -owners by officia l notice, and any 
person who objects shall have the right to make an application to the judge within two 
months from the date of the notification.  
(2) The judge may, upon application being made to him, and if he agrees with the decision  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  266 
 of the majority, or der the taking of such measures as he thinks fit, and he may in particular 
decide that the dissenting co- owner be given a guarantee securing payment of such 
compensation as may be due to him.  
Article (1158 ) 
Any co -owner shall have the right to take steps t o preserve the co- owned property, even 
without the agreement of the remainder of the co- owners.    
  
Article (1159 ) 
The costs of management and preservation of the co- owned property, any taxes payable 
thereon, and all other expenses arising out of the co- ownership or which are payable on the 
property shall be borne by all of the co- owners in proportion to the shares of each.  
  
2- Termination of co -ownership  
Article (1160 ) 
Division shall be the separation and specification of a co -owned share, and may take place 
by mutual agreement or by order of the court.  
  
Article (1161 ) 
The property divided must be such as is capable of division, and owned by the co- owners 
when the division takes place.  
  
Article (1162 ) 
Without prejudice to the provisions of other laws, a ny person wishing to leave the 
co-ownership may, if no agreement in that behalf has been made with the other co- owners, 
make an application for judicial division.  
  
Article (1163 ) 
In order for a division by consent to be valid, all of the participants mus t agree.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  267 
 Article (1164 ) 
(1) In order for a judicial division to be valid, it must be made upon the application of one of 
the owners of the co -owned shares.  
(2) A judicial division may take place notwithstanding the objection of one of the co- owners.  
  
Article (1165 ) 
The co- owned property must be capable of division in such a way that the division does not 
destroy the benefit intended.  
  
Article (1166 ) 
If a partition in kind is not possible or would cause damage or significant decrease in the 
value of the property to be partitioned, any co- owner may sell his share to another co -owner 
or request the judge to sell it in the manner set out in the law.  
In case of failure to sell the share, such co -owner may request to sell the property as a whole 
in the manner  set out in the law and divide the proceeds among the co- owners on a pro- rata 
basis. The judge may order to restrict the auction to co- owners first if so requested by any of 
them.  
In all cases, the request for sale shall not be accepted if it causes more damage to the other 
co-owners and no new requests for sale shall be accepted from the same person before the 
lapse of one year from the date of rejection of the previous request or the date on which the 
damage is eliminated, whichever is sooner.  
  
Article (1167 ) 
(1) The obligees of any co- owner may object to the division, whether by consent or by order 
of the court, by giving notice to all of the co -owners if the division is to be by consent, or by 
intervening in the court proceedings if it is to be by cour t order.  
(2) The division shall not be effective as against the obligees if the co -owners have not 
included them in all the proceedings.  
(3) If the division has been effected an obligee who has not been joined may not challenge it 
save in the event of frau d.  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  268 
  
  
 
Article (1168 ) 
If it should appear that there is a debt owed by a deceased after the division of his estate, the division shall be cancelled unless the heirs discharge the debt or they are released from it by 
the obligees, or the deceased has left o ther undivided property and the obligation is 
discharged out of it.  
  
Article (1169 ) 
A co -owner participating in the division shall be regarded as the independent owner of the 
share devolving on him after the division.  
  
Article (1170 ) 
A division may not b e resiled from after has been perfected, save that it shall be permissible 
for all of the co- owners to cancel and annul the division by consent and to restore the 
divided property to co- ownership between them as before.  
  
Article (1171 ) 
The provisions governing the options of conditionality, sight and defect shall apply in the division of heterogenous and homogenous non -fungibles, but in the case of fungibles, the 
provisions of the option for defect shall apply to the exclusion of the options of conditional ­
ity and of sight.  
 
Article (1172 ) 
(1) Any person who has been the victim of gross cheating in division by consent may apply to the judge to cancel the division and to redivide the property equitably.  
(2) In determining the degree of the cheating, the crit erion shall be the value of the divided 
property at the time of the division.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  269 
   
Article (1173 ) 
Claims for cancellation and redivision may not be heard unless they are brought within one 
year from the date of the division.  
  
Article (1174 ) 
A partition shall  be void if there is a third party right over the whole or part of the co -owned 
property divided, and in that event there shall be a re- division of the balance.  
  
Article (1175 ) 
Division by a voluntary agent shall depend upon the confirmation of the co -own ers of the 
property divided, whether by word or act.  
  
3- Division of benefits of co- ownership (joint use)  
Article (1176 ) 
Joint use is the division of the benefits, which may be divided according to time or place, and in the former case the co- owners shal l take turns in enjoying the whole of the co- owned 
property for a period proportionate to the share of each of them, and in the latter case each of them shall enjoy a specified proportion of the co- owned property.  
  
Article (1177 ) 
(1) If joint use is determined by time, the period must be specified, but it need not be specified in the case of use of a part.  
(2) The co -owners shall agree upon the duration of the joint use, and if they do not agree the 
court may specify such duration as it thinks fit in accor dance with the nature of the dispute 
and the co -owned property, and it may also conduct a ballot to determine the 
commencement of the joint use in time, and to determine that part of the property in the event of joint use of the part.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  270 
 Article (1178 ) 
The provisions governing the division of joint use with regard to the effectiveness thereof 
against third parties, the capacity of the participants, their rights and obligations, and means 
of proof, shall be subject to the provisions of contracts of leasing if  such provisions do not 
conflict with the nature of such division.  
  
Article (1179 ) 
(1) If the co -owners may, during the proceedings for final division, agree that the property of 
which the use is co- owned be divided among them pending the final division.  
(2) If the co- owners cannot agree on the division of use, the court may, upon the application 
of any of the co -owners, make an order as to such division and may seek the assistance of 
experts if appropriate.  
 
Article (1180 ) 
(1) If one of the owners of co- owned property which is capable of being divided requires 
that the property itself be divided up, and the other wishes to have shared use, the claim for division (of the property itself) shall prevail.  
(2) If one of them requires that there should be shared use without any of them requiring 
division (of the property itself) and the others object, there must be shared use.  
(3) If one of the co- owners requires shared use of co- owned property which cannot be 
divided up, and the other objects, then the request f or shared use shall prevail. 
  
Article (1181 ) 
Shared use shall not become void upon the death of one of the owners of shares or upon the 
death of them all, and the heirs of the deceased shall take his place.  
  
4- Mandatory co -ownership  
Article (1182 ) 
Subj ect to the provisions of Articles 1165 and 1166 of this Law, the co -owners of co- owned  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  271 
 property may not require that it be divided up if it appears that the purpose for which such 
property was intended is such that it must always remain under co- ownership.  
  
5- Family ownership  
Article (1183 ) 
Members of a single family all having a common business or interest may agree in writing to establish a family ownership, and such ownership may consist either of an estate which they 
have inherited and which they have  agreed to place in whole or in part in family ownership, 
or of any other property known to them which they have agreed to bring into such ownership.  
  
Article (1184 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible to agree to the establishment of family ownership for a peri od not 
exceeding 15 years, but provided that each co- owner may apply to the court for leave to 
withdraw his share from such ownership prior to the expiration of the period agreed upon, if there is strong justification for that course.  
(2) If there is no fi xed period laid down for the said ownership, each co- owner may 
withdraw his share therefrom after the expiration of six months from the day on which he gives notice to the other co- owners of his intention to withdraw his share.  
  
Article (1185 ) 
(1) The co -owners may not require that the property be divided up so long as the family 
ownership remains in existence, and no co- owner may dispose of his share to an outsider to 
the family save by the unanimous consent of the other co -owners.  
(2) If an outsider to t he family acquires the ownership of the share of one of the co- owners 
with his consent or if that happens compulsorily, he shall not be a co -owner in the family 
ownership save by his consent and the consent of the remainder of the co- owners.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  272 
 Article (1186) 
(1) The owners of a majority of the shares in a family ownership may appoint one or more of 
their number to manage the co -owned property, and the manager of the family -owned 
property may effect changes in the use for which the co- owned property was int ended 
whereby the means of enjoyment of such property are enhanced, in the absence of an 
agreement to the contrary.  
(2) The manager may be dismissed in the same manner in which he was appointed, and the 
court may likewise dismiss him on the application of any co -owner if there is a strong reason 
justifying such dismissal.   
Article (1187 ) 
With the exception of the foregoing rules, the rules relating to co- ownership, agency and 
inheritances shall apply to family ownership.  
  
-6 Ownership of floors and apartm ents 
Article (1188 ) 
(1) If there are several owners of storeys in a building or of different apartments, they shall be deemed to be co- owners of the land and of the parts of the building intended for 
common use by them all or any other part registered under such description for which, by the nature of the building, must be in common ownership, including in particular the following:  
(a) foundations and structural walls;  
(b) party walls, walls of entrances, and walls supporting the roof;  
(c) ventilation ducts  for amenities;  
(d) roof supports, gangways, entrances, yards, ceilings, stairs and stairwells, corridors and passages, floor supports, lifts, and porters' rooms; and  
(e) heating and cooling appliances and other pipes, nozzles, drains, and installations and 
extensions used in common such as lighting and water appliances and appurtenances, and 
all that forms part of the building save those parts inside any particular floor or apartment.  
(2) All of the above shall apply in the absence of any contrary provisio n in the title deeds or  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  273 
 the law.  
  
Article (1189 ) 
The common parts of buildings provided for in the foregoing Article may not be divided up, 
and the share of each owner in them shall be in proportion to his share in the building, and 
no owner may dispose of his share independently from the other.  
  
Article (1190 ) 
Party walls between two apartments shall be co -owned by the owners of such apartments if 
they are not counted as a co- owned part (of the building as a whole).  
  
Article (1191 ) 
Each owner may enjoy the use of the common parts for the purpose for which they were 
intended provided that such use does not interfere with the exercise by the remaining 
co-owners of their rights.  
  
Article (1192 ) 
Each owner shall share in the costs of preserving, maintaining  and managing the common 
parts, and his share of the costs shall be in proportion to the value of the property that he owns unless there is a contrary provision in the rules for the management of the building, 
and any owner who causes an increase in the ex penses of the building shall be responsible 
therefor.  
An owner may not dispose of his share in the common parts in order to avoid paying his 
share of the expenses.  
  
Article (1193 ) 
No owner may make any alteration in the common parts without the consent of  all of the 
owners even when the building is being renewed unless the alteration he makes is such as 
to increase the benefit of such parts and is not such as will alter its purpose or cause any  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  274 
 prejudice to the other owners.  
  
Article (1194 ) 
(1) The owner of a lower floor must carry out such works and repairs as are necessary to 
prevent the collapse of the upper floor.  
(2) If he fails to carry out such repairs, the court may, upon the application of an injured party order that the necessary repairs be carri ed out, and the injured party shall have a right 
of recourse against the owner of a lower floor for any costs borne by him.  
  
Article (1195 ) 
(1) If a building collapses, the owner of the lower floor must rebuild his lower floor as 
before, and if he fails to do so and it is built by the owner of an upper floor with his consent 
or by leave of the court, he shall have a right of recourse for the share of the owner of the lower floor in the expense.  
(2) If the owner of a lower floor fails to repair it and it is  repaired by the owner of an upper 
floor without the leave of the court or the consent of the owner of the lower floor, he shall 
have a right of recourse against the owner of the lower floor for his share of the value of the 
building at the time of the repair.  
(3) If the owner of an upper floor repairs a lower floor without reference of the owner of the 
lower floor and without ascertaining that he is failing (to repair it himself), the owner of the 
upper floor shall be deemed to have made a gift, and he sha ll have no right of recourse.  
(4) The owner of an upper floor may, in the first two cases, prevent the owner of a lower floor from disposing of it or using it until he satisfies his right, and he may also let it by leave 
of the court and recover what is du e to him out of the rent.  
  
Article (1196 ) 
The owner of an upper floor may not increase the height of the building in such a way as to 
cause prejudice to the owner of the lower floor.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  275 
 7- Associations of owners of storeys and apartments  
Article (1197 ) 
(1) Wherever there is co- ownership of real property divided into floors or flats, the owners 
may form an association as between them for the management thereof, and to ensure 
proper enjoyment thereof.  
(2) The purpose of the formation of the association may b e to build on land or to purchase it 
for the distribution of the ownership of the parts thereof among the members.  
(3) The composition, regulations, management, powers and other associated matters of such 
association shall be subject to the provisions of t he special laws made in that behalf.  
  
8- Party walls  
Article (1198 ) 
If a wall is co -owned by two or more persons, none of the co- owners may make any new 
building on top of it without the consent of the others.  
  
Article (1199 ) 
(1) A co -owner of a party wall may, if he has a serious interest in heightening it, heighten it at 
his own expense on condition that he causes no substantial prejudice to the other co -owner, 
and he must maintain the wall and make it fit to bear the load arising out of the heightening and must not adversely affect its fitness for that purpose.  
(2) If the party wall is not sufficiently strong to withstand the heightening, the co -owner who 
wishes to heighten it must rebuild the whole wall at his own sole expense, and any 
necessary thick ening must be on his side of the wall so far as possible, and the rebuilt wall 
shall, with the exception of the heightened part, remain in co- ownership without the 
neighbor  who carried out the heightening having any right to compensation.  
  
Article (1200 ) 
A neighbor  who has not shared in the costs of heightening may become a co -owner of the 
heightened part if he pays one half of the costs and the value of one half of the land on  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  276 
 which the extra thickness stands, if it has been thickened.  
  
Article (1201 ) 
(1) The owner of a party wall may use it for the purpose for which it was intended and may 
place beams on it to support the roof without subjecting the wall to an excess load.  
(2) If a party wall is not fit for the purpose for which it is usually intended, the costs of repairing or renewing it shall be borne by the co- owners in proportion to the share of each 
of them in it. 
  
Article (1202 ) 
A wall which at the time it was built divides two buildings shall be deemed to be co- owned 
up to the middle line in the absence of any contrary indication.  
  
Chapter Two:  Means of acquisition of ownership  
Part  1: Acquisition of ownerless ("permitted") things  
(1) Moveables  
Article (1203 ) 
Whoever takes possession of an ownerless moveable with the intention of becoming the own er, shall in fact become the owner thereof.  
  
Article (1204 ) 
(1) A moveable shall become ownerless if the owner thereof abandons it with the intention of abandoning his ownership.  
(2) Wild animals shall be deemed to be ownerless so long as they remain at l iberty, and 
domesticated animals in the habit of returning to the place allocated for them but which then lose that habit shall become ownerless.  
  
Article (1205 ) 
(1) Treasures found in land belonging to a particular person shall be  owned by him, but he  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  277 
 must give one fifth thereof to the state.  
(2) Treasures found in land owned by the state shall be owned by the state in their entirety.  
(3) In respect of land subject to a valid waqf, property discovered on it shall belong to the 
waqf  authority.  
  
Article (1206 ) 
Minerals found in the ground shall belong to the state, notwithstanding that such minerals are on (privately) owned property.  
  
Article (1207 ) 
Special laws shall b e passed governing treasures and minerals, and likewise rights of hunting 
and fishing, lost property and antiquities.  
  
Article (1208 ) 
Articles washed up by the sea which no owner comes forward to claim shall belong to the 
person finding them and who has i nitially taken possession of them, and if they were 
formerly owned by a Muslim or a dhimmi (a non -muslim lawfully resident in a muslim 
jurisdiction), then one fifth of such property shall go to the treasury and the remainder shall 
belong to the finder, and if the former owner was a Muslim or a dhimmi, ownership shall 
revert to him if he is known, and if he is not known the provisions relating to lost property 
shall apply. 
  
2- Immoveables  
Article (1209 ) 
(1) Uncultivated (and ownerless) land shall belong to the state.  
(2) It shall not be permissible to acquire ownership or take possession of such land without 
the permission of the state in accordance with the law.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  278 
 Article (1210 ) 
Undeveloped land is land which is not allocated to any ownership or any partic ular use, but 
it may become so allocated by being developed or becoming part of the precincts of a town, 
well, tree or house.  
  
 
Article (1211 ) 
(1) Whoever cultivates or develops undeveloped land with the consent of the appropriate authorities shall be the owner thereof.  
(2) The competent authority may permit the development of land subject to a grant only of the right of use but not of ownership.  
  
Article (1212 ) 
If a person develops part of the land he has been authorised to develop and leaves the rest, he shall be the owner of the developed part to the exclusion of the remainder unless the part 
left is encircled by land which he has developed.  
  
Article (1213 ) 
By the development of undeveloped land shall be meant the erection of buildings or 
planting thereon, boring for water, or the like, and it shall, by the develop­ ment thereof, 
become the property of the person who has developed it, and if th e work done is obliterated 
thereafter and the land is developed by another person a substantial time after the 
obliteration, the land shall become the property of the second person to develop it, and it 
shall likewise become his property if he develops it prior to the expiration of a substantial 
length of time after the obliteration, and the original developer remains silent without any 
reasonable cause after he becomes aware (of the new development), and if he does not 
remain silent or there is a reasonabl e cause for his remaining silent, the land shall remain his 
property and the second developer shall be entitled to the value of his development which 
remains in place if he was unaware of the original developer, but he shall be entitled to  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  279 
 nothing if he had such knowledge.  
  
Article (1214 ) 
The precincts of a town shall include the entrances and exits, places for gathering firewood, 
and the pastures, and the precincts of a house shall consist of such part as the persons 
resident there make use of, and a compound on which a house stands shall be used by the 
residents of each house in such a way as not to prejudice the enjoyment of their neighbours.  The precincts of a well is the area used by those who come to drink at it or draw 
water from it, and shall include the area where the erection of any thing towards would disturb those who come to use it would affect the water.  The precinct of a tree is such area 
as is required to water it, and over which its roots and branches spread, and on which the erection of a ny thing would affect its growth.  The people living in a town or a house, or the 
owner of a well or a tree, shall be the owners of the precincts, and they may prevent other 
people using it or erecting any thing on it.  
  
Article (1215 ) 
(1) Whoever owns lan d by purchase, inheritance or gift from a person who has developed it, 
in circumstances where the development has become obliterated, shall remain the owner 
thereof notwithstanding the obliteration, and notwithstanding the passage of a long time 
after the obliteration.  
(2) If another person develops such land, he shall not by developing it become the owner thereof save by prescriptive rights of possession where the conditions necessary therefor are 
satisfied.  
  
Article (1216 ) 
(1) The fencing off of undeveloped land shall not be regarded as a development thereof.  
(2) If any person does fence off undeveloped land, he shall be regarded as having a better 
right to it for a period of three years, but if he does not develop it within that period it shall 
be permis sible to give it to another person on condition that he does develop it.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  280 
 Article (1217 ) 
If a person digs a well on undeveloped land with the consent of the appropriate authority, he 
shall be the owner thereof.  
  
 
 
 
Part  2: Guarantees  
Article (1218 ) 
Property guaranteed shall become owned by virtue of the guarantee, such ownership being 
retrospective to the time at which the cause of ownership arose, provided that the subject 
matter must have been capable of being owned at the commencement of such peri od. 
  
Part  3: Inheritance and liquidation of estates  
1- General provisions  
Article (1219 ) 
(1) An heir shall acquire by way of inheritance land, chattels and rights vested in the estate.  
(2) The definition of heirs and the determination of their shares in t he inheritance, as well as 
the transfer of the estate, shall be subject to the provisions of the Islamic Shari'a and the laws passed giving effect thereto.  
  
2- The estate 
a- General provisions  
Article (1220 ) 
(1) If the testor has not appointed an executor  for his estate, any person concerned may 
apply to the court for the appointment of an executor unanimously elected by all of the heirs from among their number, or a third party, and if the heirs are not unanimous in the election 
of any person, the court shall make such election after hearing their representations.  
(2) Regard shall be had to the application of special laws if the heirs include an unborn baby,  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  281 
 a person of no capacity or defective capacity, or an absent person.  
  
Article (1221 ) 
If the testor has appointed an executor for the estate, the court must, upon the application of 
any of the persons concerned, confirm such appointment.  
   
Article (1222 ) 
(1) A person appointed as the executor of an estat e may withdraw from his function in 
accordance with the rules governing agency.  
(2) The court may, upon the application of any party concerned or of the public prosecutor, 
or without an application being made, dismiss an executor and appoint another person  if it 
is shown that such a course is justified.  
  
Article (1223 ) 
(1) The court must make a note in a special register of orders made appointing executors of 
an estate, or confirming them if they are appointed by the testator, or orders made in respect 
of their dismissal or withdrawal.  
(2) Such entries shall be effective in respect of third parties dealing with the heirs in 
connection real property forming part of the estate.  
  
Article (1224 ) 
(1) The executor of an estate shall take delivery of the property  thereof after his 
appointment, and he shall liquidate it under the supervision of the court.  He may require to 
be paid remuneration as assessed by the court.  
(2) The estate shall bear the costs of the liquidation, and such costs shall have the same 
priority status as judicial expenses.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  282 
 Article (1225 ) 
The judge must where required take all necessary steps to preserve the estate, and he may 
order that cash or financial securities and other valuables be deposited with the court within 
the jurisdiction of which the assets of the estate are situated whether in whole or in part, until the liquidation is completed.  
  
Article (1226 ) 
The executor of an estate must pay out of the assets of the estate:  
(a) funeral costs;  
(b) sufficient and reasonable costs out of such assets to a needy heir until the liquidation is completed, after obtaining the order of the court for such expenditure, and provided that the 
expenditure shall be deducted from the portion due to each heir ou t of his share of the 
estate; and  
(c) the judge shall determine any dispute arising in this regard.  
  
Article (1227 ) 
(1) The creditors may not, at the time of the appointment of the executor of an estate, take any proceeding against the estate, nor may they continue any proceeding already taken, 
save against the executor of the estate. (2) All proceedings already commenced against the deceased shall be suspended until all of 
the debts of the estate are settled, in the event that any party concerned so appli es. 
  
Article (1228 ) 
No heir may prior to receiving a declaration of his share in the net estate dispose of the assets of the estate, nor may he demand any debts due to the estate or create a debt against 
it by way of set -off for a debt owed by it.  
  
Article (1229 ) 
(1) The executor of an estate must take all steps to preserve the assets thereof, and must  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  283 
 manage the same, represent the estate in claims, and must get in the debts owed to it.  
(2) The executor of an estate shall have the same liability as an ag ent for reward 
notwithstanding that he may not in fact be working for remuneration, and the court may 
require him to submit an account of his management at specified times.  
  
Article (1230 ) 
(1) The executor of an estate must summon the creditors and debtor s thereof to submit 
particulars of the debts due to or from them within a period of two months from the date of 
publication of such summons.  
(2) The summons must be posted on the notice board of the court within the jurisdiction of 
which the last residence of the testator was situated, and the court in which the assets of the 
estate are situated, whether in whole or in part, and it must also be published in one of the 
daily newspapers.  
  
Article (1231 ) 
(1) The executor of an estate must, within three months of the date of his appointment, deposit with the court ordering his appointment an inventory of the assets and liabilities of the estate, and an estimate of the value of such assets, and he must notify the persons 
concerned of such deposit by registered letter.  
(2) He may apply to the court to extend that time if such a course is justified.  
  
Article (1232 ) 
The executor of an estate may, in assessing the value of the assets of the estate and making 
an inventory thereof, use the services of an expert, and may provide proof of what is shown 
by the papers of the testator and what comes to his knowledge in connection therewith, and the heirs must notify him of any debts owed by or rights due to the estate.  
  
Article (1233 ) 
Any breach of trust on the part of any person who commits a fraud against the assets of the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  284 
 estate, notwithstanding that he may be an heir, shall be punishable by the penalties laid 
down in the criminal law.  
  
Article (1234 ) 
Any dispute as to the correctness of the inventory shall be raised before the court having jurisdiction within thirty days from the date on which the inventory was deposited with the 
court.  
  
 
b- Settlement of debts of the estate  
Article (1235 ) 
(1) After t he expiration of the time limit for hearing disputes as to the inventory, the 
executor of the estate shall, after obtaining the leave of the court, pay the debts in respect of which there is no dispute.  
(2) With regard to disputed debts, they shall be sett led after a final determination as to the 
validity thereof.  
  
Article (1236 ) 
The executor of an estate must, in the event that the estate is bankrupt or will probably be 
bankrupt, suspend the settlement of any debt notwithstanding that it may not be disput ed 
until a final determination is made on all of the disputes relating to the debts of the estate.  
  
Article (1237 ) 
(1) The executor of an estate shall pay its debts out of the rights due to it which he receives, 
and out of the cash and value of the moveables forming part of the estate, and if such value 
is insufficient, then payment shall be made out of the real proper ty. 
(2) Moveables and immoveables belonging to the estate shall be sold by auction in accordance with the procedures and times laid down for compulsory sales in the Code of 
Procedures before the Civil Courts, unless the heirs decide upon another means, and if the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  285 
 estate is bankrupt, all of the creditors must agree to such other means agreed upon by the 
heirs, and in all cases the heirs shall have a right to participate in the auction.  
  
Article (1238 ) 
The court may, upon the application of all of the heirs,  order that a debt secured on property 
shall become immediately payable, and may determine the amount of the debt due to the 
creditor.  
  
 
Article (1239 ) 
Any heir may, after distribution of the deferred debts secured on property, pay the relevant 
amount  prior to the date of maturity.  
  
Article (1240 ) 
Creditors who have not obtained their rights on the grounds that they have not been proved on the inventory, and who have no securities on the assets of the estate, shall have a right of 
recourse against per sons who have acquired a right in rem in good faith over such assets, 
and they shall also have a right of recourse against the heirs up to such part of the estate as 
has devolved upon them.  
  
Article (1241 ) 
The executor of an estate shall, after settling t he debts, give effect to the dispositions of the 
testator and other encumbrances.  
 
c- Delivery and division of the assets of the estate 
Article (1242 ) 
After the obligations of the estate have been dealt with, the balance of the assets shall 
devolve upon t he heirs, each in accordance with his lawful proportion.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  286 
 Article (1243 ) 
(1) The executor of the estate shall deliver to the heirs such part of the assets as have 
devolved upon them.  
(2) The heirs may, immediately upon the expiration of the period laid down for disputes 
relating to the inventory of the estate, demand that the property and money not requiring to 
be liquidated, or part thereof, be delivered to them, by way of a provisional arrangement 
against submission of a guarantee, or without a guarantee . 
   
 
Article (1244 ) 
The court shall, upon the application of any of the heirs or persons concerned, issue a 
certificate allocating the portions of the estate, and setting out the lawful proportion due to 
each heir.  
  
Article (1245 ) 
Each heir may require t he executor of the estate to deliver his portion of the inheritance to 
him after dividing it from the rest unless such heir is bound to remain a co -owner by way of 
agreement or by virtue of a provision in the law.  
  
Article (1246 ) 
(1) If the application fo r division is accepted, the executor of the estate must make such 
provision, but provided that such division shall not become final until all of the heirs have consented.  
(2) The executor of the estate must, in the absence of a unanimous agreement as to the 
division, make an application to the court to make such division in accordance with the 
provisions of the law, and the costs of such application to divide shall be deducted from the 
portions due to the heirs.  
  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  287 
 Article (1247 ) 
The provisions laid down in  respect of the division of property shall apply to the division of 
an estate, and the provisions of the following articles shall likewise apply thereto.  
  
Article (1248 ) 
If the assets of the estate include property which is exploited agriculturally, industrially or 
commercially, and is properly to be regarded as an independent economic unit, then, in the 
event that the heirs do not agree that it should continue to be so us ed and there is no third 
party right subsisting over such property, it must be allocated in whole to such of the heirs as 
demanded if they are the persons most capable of dealing with it, on condition that the 
value thereof is ascertained and deducted from the proportion of such heir in the estate, and 
if all of the heirs are equally capable of managing it, it shall be allocated to such one of them 
as gives the greatest value, but provided that it shall not be less than the fair value.  
  
Article (1249 ) 
If upon the division of the estate one of the heirs has a debt against it, the remainder of the 
heirs shall not guarantee that debt if he becomes bankrupt after the division, unless a 
contrary agreement is made.  
  
Article (1250 ) 
A testamentary disposition as to the division of the assets of the estate among the heirs shall be valid provided that it makes an appointment in favour of each heir or some of the heirs as 
to his proportion, and if the value of any property appointed in favour of one of them exceeds hi s entitlement to the estate, such appointment shall be regarded as a special 
testamentary disposition in his favour.  
  
Article (1251 ) 
It shall be permissible to resile from a division deferred until after death, and such division shall become binding upon the death of the testator.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  288 
   
Article (1252 ) 
If the division does not include the whole of the property of the testator at the time of his 
death, the assets which are not included in the division shall become the co- owned property 
of the heirs in accordance with the rules of succession.  
  
Article (1253 ) 
If one or more of the probable heirs included in the division die before the death of the testator, the separate share falling to the lot of such deceased person shall devolve as 
co-owned property upon the remainder of the heirs in accordance with the rules of 
succession, without prejudice to the mandatory provisions of succession.  
  
Article (1254 ) 
The rules governing division generally shall apply to divisions deferred until after the death, 
with the exception of the rules relating to cheating.  
  
Article (1255 ) 
If the property divided does not include the debts of the estate, or if it does include t hem, but 
the creditors do not agree to such division, it shall be permissible for any heir, in the absence 
of agreement with the creditors, to apply to the court for a division and for settlement of the 
debts, provided that so far as is possible the divisi on provided for by the testator, and the 
considerations upon which it is founded, shall be applied.  
  
3- Provisions relating to unliquidated estates  
Article (1256 ) 
If the estate has not been liquidated in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the 
ordin ary creditors of the estate may enforce their rights or such as have been bequeathed to 
them against the real property of the estate which has been disposed of, or over which third 
property rights in rem have arisen if they have placed a restriction on it for their debts prior  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  289 
 to the registration of the dispositions.  
  
 
Part 4: Wills  
Article (1257 ) 
(1) A will is a disposition by a person over his estate, deferred until after his death.  
(2) A legatee shall acquire ownership over the property bequeathed to hi m by virtue of the 
will.  
  
Article (1258 ) 
The provisions of the Islamic Shari'a and the legislative provisions deriving therefrom shall 
apply to wills.  
  
Article (1259 ) 
In the event of the denial of a claim under a will or an oral resilement therefrom afte r the 
death of the testator, such claim shall not be heard unless there are official documents or 
documents all written in the hand of the deceased, bearing his signature, and the same shall 
apply if the will itself or the resilement therefrom contains a c ertification of the signature of 
the testator.  
  
Article (1260 ) 
(1) Any legal act done by a person in a terminal illness of which the intention is to make a 
gift shall be regarded as a disposition to take effect after the death, and the provisions 
governing wills shall apply thereto, by whatever name the act may have been called.  
(2) The heirs of the disponor must prove by all means that the disposition was made by their 
testator during the terminal illness.  No deed of disposition may be relied on as against the 
heirs unless the date thereof is officially proved.  
(3) I f the heirs prove that the disposition was made by their legator during a terminal illness, 
the disposition shall be deemed to have been made by way of gift unless the person to  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  290 
 whom the disposition was made proves the contrary, or if there are special provisions to the 
contrary.  
  
Article (1261 ) 
If a person makes a disposition to one of his heirs but retains possession of the property 
which he has disposed of and of his right to use it throughout his life, the disposition shall be 
deemed to take effect aft er the death, and the provisions relating to wills shall apply thereto 
unless there is evidence to the contrary.  
 
Part  5: Acquisition by accretion 
1- Accretion to real property  
a- Accretion by operation of nature  
Article (1262 ) 
Silt carried by (naturally) moving water to the land of any person shall be owned by him.  
  
Article (1263 ) 
(1) The owner of soil which has become displaced through an act of God may make a claim 
for it if it can be ascertained, and the owner of the land of  greater value shall indemnify the 
owner of the land of lesser value for the value thereof, and he shall become the owner of such soil.  
(2) No such claim shall be heard after the expiration of one year from the occurrence of the 
incident.  
  
Article (1264 ) 
Islands, both large and small, which are naturally, formed in water courses, shall be deemed 
to be part of the property of the state.  
  
 
Article (1265 )  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  291 
 Islands, both large and small, which are formed in lakes, and likewise the silt of lakes and of 
the sea shall be deemed to be the property of the state.  
  
Article (1266 ) 
Land rising over the sea, lakes, pools and ponds which have no owner shall be the property of the state.  
  
b- Accretion by act of persons  
Article (1267 ) 
Any building, plant or work standing upon land shall be deemed to have been put there by the owner of the land at his own expense and to belong to him, unless there is evidence to 
the contr ary. 
  
Article (1268 ) 
If an owner of land builds on his land with materials owned by a third party but without his consent, then, if the materials are still in existence and the owner demands their return, the 
land owner must return them to him, but if they have been destroyed or wasted, he must 
pay the value thereof to their owner, and in either event the owner of the land must pay compensation if appropriate.  
  
Article (1269 ) 
If a person places a building, plant or other installation using materials he ha s, on land which 
he knows belongs to another, without the consent of the owner thereof, the owner may require that what has been placed there be removed at the expense of the person who placed it there, and if the removal would damage the land, he may become the owner 
thereof for the value which they would have had if removed.  
  
Article (1270 ) 
If a person places a building, plant or other construction with materials of hi s on the land of  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  292 
 another claiming a lawful cause, then, if the value of the things placed and still existing is 
greater than the value of the land, the person who has placed them there may acquire 
ownership of the land at a fair value, and if the value of the land is not less than the value of the things placed there, the owner of the land may acquire ownership thereof at their 
existing value.  
  
Article (1271 ) 
If a person erects installations with materials of his on the land of another with the consent 
of the other, then, if there is no agreement between them as to what shall happen to the 
installations, the owner of the land may not require that they be removed, and he must, if the owner of the installations does not require them to be removed, pay him the existing 
value thereof.  
  
Article (1272 ) 
If a person plants or makes another installation with materials owned by another on the 
land of any person, the owner of the materials may not require them to be returned, but he 
shall have a right of recourse for compensation against the person who placed them there, and likewise he shall have a right of recourse against the owner of the land for an amount 
not exceeding the balance of the debt owing to the constructor out of the value of such 
installations.  
  
Article (1273 ) 
If one of the owners of shares builds for himself on co- owned property capable of being 
divided up without the consent of the others, and the property is then divided up, then, if the 
built -up part falls to his lot he shall be the owner of it, and if it falls to the lot of another he 
may acquire the ownership thereof for the value which it would have if removed, or he may 
require the builder to demolish it.  
  
2- Accretion to chattels   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  293 
 Article (1274 ) 
If moveables accrue to different owners in such a  way that they cannot be separated without 
damage and there is no agreement between the owners, the court shall decide upon the 
dispute in accordance with custom and the rules of equity, having regard to any damage which may occur the state of both parties , and the good faith of each of them.  
  
Part  6: Contract  
Article (1275 ) 
Ownership and other rights in rem over moveables and real property may be transferred by 
contract if the elements and conditions thereof required by law are satisfied, but without 
prejudice to the provisions of the following Articles.  
  
Article (1276 ) 
Ownership of moveables not s pecified by type may only be transferred by specific 
appropriation.  
  
Article (1277 ) 
Ownership of real property or other rights in rem over real property may not be transferred 
between the two contracting parties so as to be valid against a third party sav e by 
registration in accordance with the special laws.  
  
Article (1278 ) 
An undertaking to transfer ownership of real property shall be limited to an obligation to pay 
compensation if the undertaker is in breach of his undertaking, whether the undertaking 
contains a provision to pay compensation or not.  
 
Part  7: Pre-emption  
1- General Provisions  
Article (1279 )  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  294 
 Pre-emption is the entitlement of an owner of a share in co- owned property to take the 
share of his fellow co -owner for the price negotiated in a financial commutative contract, or 
for its value in a non- financial commutative contract for the equivalent of  the customary 
market price.  
  
Article (1280 ) 
The following shall be deemed to be pre- emptors: - 
(1) the overseer of a co -owned waqf in jointly owned real property if the donor has given 
him the right to take the share of another co- owner by way of pre- empt ion for retention; or  
(2) a person having a reversionary interest in a waqf after the expiration of the period 
thereof or after the beneficiaries have ceased to have that status, if the waqf is co -owned 
and part of jointly owned property and the co -owner s ells his share.  
 
Article (1281 ) 
The following persons shall not have a right of pre- emption:  
(1) the beneficiary of a waqf in respect of part of property co- owned by the donor and 
another if the other co -owner sells his share notwithstanding that the beneficiary has given 
as a waqf the share of the co -owner which he wishes to take by pre- emption, unless he is the 
person having the reversionary interes t in the share endowed to him, in which case he shall 
have a right of pre -emption over it and become the owner thereof;  
(2) a neighbour in the event of the sale of adjoining land, notwithstanding that he may have a right of way over such land by way of lea se or easement; or  
(3) the overseer of a waqf in co- owned real property, if a non -endowed part is sold, 
notwithstanding that the overseer intends to make an endowment of the share which he 
wishes to take by pre- emption, unless the donor has given him the right to acquire the 
donated property by way of pre- emption for the waqf, in which case he may do so.  
  
Article (1282 ) 
A co -owner shall have no right of pre- emption in the following cases:  
(1) crops, whether sold separately or with the land, and in the event of a sale with the land  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  295 
 the right of pre- emption shall attach to the land alone at the price agreed for it, and the crops 
shall remain for the purchaser;  
(2) a well in the event that the land it waters is divided with the well remaining in joint 
ownersh ip, and if the land is not divided then there shall be a right of pre -emption over it 
whether the co- owner sells his share thereof separately or together with his share in the 
land;  
(3) the precincts of a house or a passageway giving access to it, whether the co- owner sells 
his share of the whole of it separately or together with his share in the house if the house is divided, and the precincts or the passageway shall remain jointly owned by the co- owners, 
and if the house is not divided the right of pre- emption over the precincts and the passage 
shall exist and be appurtenant to the house; and  
(4) animals, unless they belong to jointly owned property for use to be made of them in tilling or irrigation or the like, and the co -owner sells his share  in the pr operty and the 
animals together, in which case the right of pre -emption shall exist and be appurtenant to 
the property.  
  
Article (1283 ) 
The pre -emptee is a person who owns the share of one of the co- owners by way of full 
ownership supervening upon the own ership of the other co- owner by way of commutative 
contract, whether for money consideration or not.  
  
Article (1284 ) 
Property subject to pre- emption is real property capable of division disposed of by contract 
by one of the co- owners notwithstanding that such contract was by way of exchange for 
similar property, or if the real property is a building or tree owned by two co- owners on 
waqf land, and if the land is not capable of division, then there shall be no right of 
pre-emption over it.  
  
Article (1285 ) 
(1) If one of the co- owners sells his share in co -owned real property and the others take that  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  296 
 share by pre- emption, it shall be divided between them in accordance with the amount of 
the portion of each and not on a per capita basis, and if the purchaser i s one of them, they 
shall leave him his share of the pre -emption in it at the price for which he bought it, and they 
shall not take the whole of the share from him.  
(2) Shares shall be calculated as at the date of the arising of the right of pre -emption an d not 
the date of sale.  
  
Article (1286 ) 
(1) If there are several degrees of pre- emptors, the right of pre- emption shall belong to the 
person participating with th e seller of the real property subject to pre- emption in the 
distribution of an estate, and if his right thereto lapses it shall devolve on the heir who does 
not participate in the distribution of the estate, and if his right lapses it shall devolve upon the legatee.  In the event of the lapse of that last right, the right of pre -emption shall belong 
to the co -owner who is a stranger (to the inheritance).  
(2) Each one of such persons shall give way to the person below him in the chain of 
pre-emption and not vice versa and the heirs of each one of them shall take his place in his 
right to pre -emption, and in giving way to the person next below him in the chain of 
pre-emption.  
  
Article (1287 ) 
(1) If there are several sales of real property subject to a right of pre -emption, and the 
pre-emptor is unaware of those several sales or if he knows of them but is absent, he shall 
have the right to elect either to take by pre- emption at the price of the sale of any part or to 
pay the price at which the purchaser in whos e possession the land was has taken it, 
notwithstanding that it is less than the price at which he purchased it, and the purchaser 
shall have a right of recourse for the excess against the seller, and if the pre -emptor knows of 
the several sales and is pre sent, he shall take at the last sale price only. 
(2) If a pre -emptor takes by sale, all subsequent rights shall be cancelled and all prior 
dispositions shall be affirmed, and any person whose purchase has been annulled shall have 
a right of recourse against the seller for the price which he has paid to him, and not for the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  297 
 value of the property.  
(3) In all cases, if any defect appears in the land or if there is a third partyright thereover the 
purchaser shall be liable for the price at which he accepted the sale.  
  
Article (1288 ) 
A pre -emptor shall exercise the right of pre- emption for himself and not for a third party, and 
if he does so for a third party in order  to make a gift or a charitable donation to him, the 
pre-emption shall be void and his right to take the property for himself thereafter shall lapse.  
  
 
Article (1289)  
(1) The pre -emption shall become final after sale with the arising of the cause creating  the 
right of pre -emption.  
(2) A gift with a stipulation for consideration shall be treated as a sale.  
  
Article (1290 ) 
Real property subject to a right of pre- emption must belong to the pre- emptor at the time of 
the sale of such property.  
  
Article (1291 ) 
If there is an established right of pre -emption, it shall not lapse upon the death of the seller, 
the purchaser or the pre- emptor.  
 
Article (1292 ) 
There shall be no pre- emption in the following circumstances:  
(a) property acquired by a gift with no consideration, charitable donation, inheritance, or by 
testamentary disposition; and  
(b) in respect of buildings and trees deliberately sold without the land upon which they 
stand, or in respect of buildings or trees  on land owned by the state.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  298 
  
  
Article (1293 ) 
The right of the pre- emptor to pre- emption shall lapse in the following circumstances:  
(a) if the purchaser of the share of his co -owner makes a division or if he purchases the share 
from him or takes a lease of it, notwithstanding that he did not know that such act would 
cause the right of pre- emption to lapse;  
(b) if he sells his share notwithstanding that he sold it in ignorance of the fact that his 
co-owner had earlier sold his share;  
(c) if he fails for tw o months without good reason to demand his share in the pre- emption, 
being aware that buildings or plants have been placed upon the land by the purchaser; or  
(d) if without good cause he fails to demand his right of pre- emption for a period of two 
months from the time he learns of the sale by his co- owner of his share if he is present in the 
country, and from the time he returns from abroad and learns of the sale by his co- owner if 
he is abroad at the time of the sale, and if he denies his knowledge of the sale and the purchaser alleges that he was aware of it, his denial of knowledge shall be accepted on his 
oath.  
  
Article (1294 ) 
If the real property is subject to a right of pre- emption is sold in one deal, the pre- emptor 
shall have the option either to take the whole of it or to leave it to the purchaser, but he may 
not take part of it to the exclusion of another part save by the consent of the purchaser 
whether the land sold was one share or several shares, and whether there was one 
purchaser or seller, or several.  
  
Article (1295 ) 
If any of the pre- emptors waives his right to take by pre- emption or if he is absent before 
taking his right of pre -emption, the remainder or those of them who are present may take 
the whole of the property su bject to pre- emption or may leave the whole of it, and they may  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  299 
 not take part to the exclusion of another part save with the consent of the purchaser.  
In the event that the person present elects to take the whole of the land subject to the right 
of pre- emp tion, the provisions of the following Article shall be observed.  
  
Article (1296 ) 
(1) If any of the pre -emptors is absent before exercising his right of pre -emption and those 
who are present take the whole of the real property subject to that right, and th en one of 
those absent arrives, he may take his share in the property from those who were present on the basis of such property being divisible into two parts only, and if a third pre- emptor 
arrives, he may take his share on the basis that the property is divisible into three parts, and 
if a fourth pre -emptor arrives he may take his share on the basis that the property is divisible 
into four parts, and so on. (2) The liability for the price of what they have taken in the event of the existence of any 
third party right or of a defect appearing shall be that of the purchaser notwith ­standing 
that the seller has discharged him from the sale before he takes the property purchased from 
him by way of pre- emption.  
  
Article (1297 ) 
Claims for pre -emption shall not be heard:  
(1) if the sale has taken place by public auction under procedures laid down by law;  
(2) if the sale has been by ascendants and descendants, or between two spouses, or between 
relatives up to the fourth degree, or between relatives by marriage up to the second degree;  
(3) if the pre -emptor has waived his right expressly or by implication.  
  
 
 
2- Procedures for pre -emption  
Article (1298 ) 
(1) A claim for pre -emption must be brought within two months from the date on which the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  300 
 pre-emptor learned of the sale.  
(2) In no case shall a claim for pre -emption be heard after the expiration of six months from 
the date of registration.  
  
Article (1299 ) 
(1) A claim for pre -emption against a purchaser shall be brought before the court within the 
jurisdiction of which the property is situated.  
(2) The court shall decide every dispute relating to the true price of the land subject to the 
pre-emption, and i t may grant the pre- emptor a period of grace of one month to pay what is 
due, failing which the right of pre- emption shall lapse.  
  
Article (1300 ) 
(1) The purchaser may bring an action against the pre -emptor before the court for an order 
either that he exercise the right of pre- emption or that such right should lapse, and if the 
pre-emptor takes either of the aforesaid courses, he shall be bound by that course, and if he 
does not make any election, the court shall terminate his right of pre- emption.  
(2) If the pre -emptor applies for extra time to consider whether to exercise the right or allow 
it to lapse, the purchaser shall not be obliged to agree to such application.  
(3) A person who wishes to purchase may not make a claim against the pre- emptor either to 
exercise or to waive his right prior to the purchase notwithstanding that he may have had 
made such a request prior thereto, and the pre- emptor has forfeited his right of pre- emption, 
and in that event such forfeiture shall not be binding upon him.  
 
Article (1301 ) 
Without prejudice to the rules relating to registration, the title of the pre- emptor in the sale 
shall be established by order of the court or by his taking delivery from the purchaser by 
consent.  
  
3- Procedures for pre -emption   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  301 
 Article (1302 ) 
The yield of real property exploited by a purchaser before it is taken from him by 
pre-emption shall belong to him until the time it is taken, and if he has leased to a third party 
before it is taken by pre- emption and the rent is payable by a lump- sum or monthly and the 
lessee has paid the rent, the pre- emptor may not cancel the lease.  The rent shall belong to 
the purchaser if the balance of the period of the lease after the land is taken by pre -emption 
does not exceed one year, and if the rent is payable monthly and the lessee has not paid the 
rent or if the balance of the period is greater than one year, then the pre- emptor may cancel 
the lease or affirm it, in which latter case the rent shall belong to him after the land is taken by pre- emption.  
  
Article (1303 ) 
(1) The acquisition of land subject to pre- emption by order of the court or by mutual 
consent shall be deemed to be a new sale giving rise to the options of inspection and defect in favour of the pre -emptor, notwithstanding that the purchaser may h ave waived the same.  
(2) The pre -emptor shall not have the benefit of any delay in payment granted to the 
purchaser save by the consent of the seller.  
(3) If a third party right over the land arises after it is taken by pre -emption, the pre- emptor 
shall have a right of recourse for the price against the person to whom he paid it, whether the seller or the buyer.  
  
Article (1304 ) 
(1) If the purchaser adds  to the property subject to pre- emption any of his own property, or 
if he builds or plants trees on it before the claim of pre- emption is made, the pre- emptor may 
elect either to abandon his right of pre- emption or to assume ownership of the property at 
the price thereof plus the value of what has been added or the new building or plant.  
(2) If the addition, building or planting has taken place after the claim has been made, the 
pre-emptor may abandon his right of pre- emption or require the removal of what has been 
added if appropriate, or may keep what has been added and pay the value of the added land,  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  302 
 or the value that the things newly placed on it would have had if removed.  
(3) If the land subject to a right of pre- emption has been diminished otherwise t han by the 
act of the purchaser, or by his act but for the public benefit, the pre- emptor may take it at its 
full price and shall have no claim in respect of the diminution, or he may leave it to the 
purchaser, and if the land has diminished by his act otherwise than for the public benefit 
then the price at which it is sold to the pre- emptor shall be reduced up to the amount of the 
diminution.  
  
Article (1305 ) 
The pre -emptor may set aside all dispositions made by the purchaser notwithstanding that 
he may have endowed the pre- empted land as a waqf, or turned it into a place of worship.  
  
Article (1306 ) 
No mortgage for security or any priority right created by or against the purchaser against the 
land subject to pre- emption shall be valid as against the pre -emptor if such right arose after 
the claim for pre- emption had been made, and the rights of the obligees shall remain as 
against the proceeds of sale of the land.  
 
Part  8: Possession  
1- General Provisions  
Article (1307 ) 
(1) Possession is actual control by a person through himself over a thing or a right which 
may be dealt in.  
(2) Possession by an intermediary shall be valid if the intermediary exercises it in the name of the possessor and if his relationship with the possessor binds him to comply with his directions in connection with such possession.  
(3) A person not of the age of discretion shall acquire possession through the person representing him at law.  
(4) Possession may not be based on an act done by a person on t he grounds only that it is  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  303 
 permitted, or an act not objected to by a third party by way of toleration.  
 
  
Article (1308 ) 
If possession is accompanied by duress or obtained secretly or by a trick, such possession 
shall have no effect as against the person subjected to the duress, or from whom the 
possession was concealed, or who was tricked, save from the time at which such defects ceased.  
  
Article (1309 ) 
(1) Possession shall be deemed t o be continuous as from the time it becomes apparent by 
the use of the thing and the right by way of normal and regular use.  
(2) A person claiming to have acquired ownership by passage of time may rely on possession by a person under whom he has derived ti tle to land.  
(3) No lessee, usufructuary, bailee, or borrower, or the heirs of such persons, may make a claim (to ownership) by reason of the passage of time.  
  
Article (1310 ) 
Possession shall  pass from the possessor to a third party if they both agree thereto, and if it is 
possible for the person to whom possession had passed to exercise control over the thing or 
the right the subject of the possession, notwithstanding that it has not been del ivered to 
him.  
 
Article (1311 ) 
(1) If several persons dispute the possession of a thing or right; the possession shall be 
provisionally deemed to be that of the person having physical possession unless it is proved 
that he has obtained such possession in a  manner tainted by a defect.  
(2) The possession shall retain the same status as it started with when obtained, unless there 
is evidence to the contrary.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  304 
 Article (1312 ) 
A person in possession of a thing shall be deemed to be acting in good faith if he is ignorant 
that he is infringing the rights of another person, and good faith shall be presumed unless 
there is evidence to the contrary.  
  
Article (1313 ) 
(1) Good faith sh all continue to be presumed in favour of the possessor save from the time 
at which he becomes aware that his possession amounts to an infringement of a third party's right.  
(2) Likewise, the quality of good faith shall cease as from the time the possessor is notified of the defects in his possession in a statement of claim. 
(3) A person who has improperly acquired possession by duress from a third party shall be 
deemed to be acting in bad faith.  
  
Article (1314 ) 
Possession shall cease if the possessor aband ons his actual control over the thing or right, or 
if he loses it by any other means.  
  
Article (1315 ) 
(1) Possession shall not cease by virtue of a temporary obstacle interfering with the exercise 
of actual control over the thing or right.  
(2) No claim in  respect thereof shall be heard if such obstacle continues for a whole year and 
arises out of a new possession taking place either against the will or without the knowledge 
of the possessor.  
(3) The year shall be calculated from the time at which the new possession commenced if 
such time is evident, and from the time the first possessor became aware of it if it 
commenced secretly.  If there is any fundamental obstacle to bringing a claim, the year shall 
be calculated as from the time when it could have been  brought.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  305 
 Article (1316 ) 
If a possessor brings a claim for delivery up and recovery of his possession, he may apply for 
an order restraining the defendant from placing any buildings or planting any trees on the 
disputed land so long as the claim continue s, provided that he submits sufficient security 
against any damage the defendant may suffer if it appears that the claimant was unjustified 
in bringing his claim.  
  
2- Effects of possession  
a- Passage of time in prescription  
Article (1317 ) 
Whoever is in possession of chattels or unregistered land as owner thereof or who possesses a right in rem over moveables or an unregistered right in rem over real property shall, if his 
possession has continued uninterrupted for 15 years, be free of any c laims, if he denies the 
same, for ownership or claims for a right in rem from any person not having a lawful excuse 
(for having delayed bringing such claim).  
 
Article (1318 ) 
(1) If possession arises over land or an unregistered right in rem over land, then, if the 
possession is accompanied by good faith and is at the same time based on a valid cause, the 
period of prescription for bringing claims shall be seven years.  
(2) A valid cause is a document or event proving possession of real pr operty, and the 
following shall be deemed to be valid causes:  
(a) transfer of property by inheritance or testamentary disposition;  
(b) gifts inter vivos with or without consideration; or  
(c) sale and barter.  
 
  
Article (1319 ) 
(1) No claims for the principa l property of a waqf or for property inherited shall be heard if  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  306 
 they could have been brought and for the failure to bring which there is no lawful excuse, 
against a person in possession of real property who has treated it as an owner without 
dispute or in terruption for a period of thirty three years.  
(2) Ownership may not be acquired of moveables or real property owned by the state or 
public bodies of the state, nor against moveables or real property owned by charitable 
endowments, nor may any right in rem over such property be acquired by prescription.  
  
Article (1320 ) 
(1) No claim for absolute ownership or claim for an inheritance or for a waqf bestowed on 
progeny shall be heard against a person in possession of real property if such property has 
been in the possession of him and the person from whom he acquired it by sale, gift, 
testamentary disposition or otherwise for the period laid down for the prescription of claims.  
(2) If possession exists and it is proved that it existed at a previous time, that f act shall be 
evidence that it continued between those two times unless there is proof to the contrary.  
  
 
Article (1321 ) 
No person may rely on the passage of time as a bar to a claim for absolute ownership being brought if the cause by which he is in posse ssion of the land is not a cause conferring 
ownership, nor may he by his own act alter the cause of his possession nor the original act on which it is founded.  
  
Article (1322 ) 
Passage of time barring proceedings for ownership shall not apply if the person  having the 
right and the right to claim has a lawful excuse for not having done so.  
   
Article (1323 ) 
The passage of time shall not be interrupted if possession of real property ceases, in the 
event that the owner recovers it or makes a claim for the recovery thereof within one year.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  307 
   
Article (1324 ) 
Subject to the foregoing provisions the rules for the pr escription of claims by passage of time 
relating to rights of possession shall apply in the calculation, cessation or interruption of and 
reliance on such time limit before the courts, waiver thereof, and agreement to vary the time, 
to such extent as these  rules do not conflict with possession.  
  
b- Possession of moveables  
Article (1325 ) 
(1) No claim of ownership shall be heard against a person in possession of a moveable or a right in rem over a moveable or a bearer bill if his possession is based on a val id cause and 
he is acting in good faith.  
(2) Possession shall of itself be indicative evidence of ownership unless the contrary is 
proved.  
  
 
Article (1326 ) 
(1) By way of exception  to the provisions of the foregoing Article, the owner of a moveable 
or a bearer bill may, if he has lost it, or it has been stolen or misappropriated from him, 
recover it from the person in possession of it in good faith within a period of three years 
from the date of the loss, theft or misappropriation, and the provisions relating to 
misappropriated moveables shall apply to the recovery.  
(2) If the person in possession of the stolen, lost or misappropriated thing has bought it in good faith in the market,  by public auction, or by a person trading in similar things, he may 
require the person recovering that thing from him to pay the price which he has paid.  
  
c- Acquisition of fruits by possession  
Article (1327 ) 
A person in posses sion in good faith shall be the owner of the fruits and benefits arising  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  308 
 during the period of his possession.  
  
Article (1328 ) 
(1) A person in possession in bad faith shall be liable in respect of all of the fruits which he 
has received or failed to receiv e from the time at which he began to act in bad faith.  
(2) He may recover what he has spent in producing such fruits.  
  
d-Recovery of expenses  
Article (1329 ) 
(1) An owner to whom his ownership is restored must pay to the person formerly in 
possession all o f the necessary expenses which he has incurred in preserving the property 
from destruction.  
(2) With regard to (unnecessary but) beneficial expenses, the provisions of Article 1270 and 
1272 of this Law shall apply.  
(3) The owner shall not be bound to reimburse expenses of a luxurious character, and the 
possessor may remove what he has installed by reason of such expenses provided that he 
restores the thing to its original condition, and the owner may retain such thing for the value 
it would have had if removed.  
  
Article (1330 ) 
If a person acquires possession from an owner or a previous possessor and it is proved that he has reimbursed to his predecessor the expenses incurred by him, he may make a claim 
therefor from his predecessor or the person recovering possession.  
 
 
e- Liability for destruction  
Article (1331 ) 
(1) If a person in possession in good faith enjoys the thing in the belief that it is his right to 
do so, he shall not be liable towards another person having a right to the thing in respect of 
such enjoyment.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  309 
 (2) A person in possession in good faith shall not be liable for any destruction or damage 
sustained by the thing save to the extent of any compensation he may have recovered or 
security obtained in respect of such destruction or damage.  
  
Article (1332 ) 
If a person is in possession in bad faith, he shall be liable for the destruction or loss of a thing notwithstanding that the same may have occurred through no fault of his. 
  
Section 2 : Rights deriving from ownership  
Chapter One : Rights of u sufruct, use, habitation, flat space, and decision  
Part  1: Rights of enjoyment  
(1) General Provisions  
Article (1333 ) 
Usufruct is a right in rem for the beneficiary to use and exploit a property belonging to oth-
ers as long as it remains as it is.   
Article (1334 ) 
He acquires the right to benefit from a legal action, by pre- emption, by inheritance, or by the 
passage of time.  
 
Article (1335 ) 
Provisions relating t o the usufruct of state -owned lands are regulated by special law.  
  
2- Effects of a right of enjoyment 
Article (1336 ) 
The rights and obligations of the beneficiary shall take into account the instrument that created the usufruct right, as well as the provisions stipulated in the following articles.  
 
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  310 
   
Article (1337 ) 
The  fruits of the thing benefited from are the right of the beneficiary for the duration of its 
benefit.  
 
Article (1338 ) 
(1) The usufructuary may deal with the property enjoyed in the usual manner if the 
document giving rise to the usufruct imposes no rest riction.  
(2) If is subject to a restriction, the usufructuary may exercise the enjoyment by use of his 
own property, or similar property, or without it.  
(3) The owner of the reversion may object to any unlawful use or any use inconsistent with the nature o f the thing enjoyed, and may apply to the court to terminate the right of usufruct 
and to return the property to him, without prejudice to third party rights.  
  
Article (1339 ) 
(1) The usufructuary shall, during the period of his enjoyment, be responsible f or the usual 
expenses required for the preservation of the property enjoyed, and for the maintenance thereof.  
(2) With regard to unusual expenses and major repairs other than those necessitated by the 
act of the usufructuary, they shall be borne by the owner, unless there is an agreement to the 
contrary.  
  
Article (1340 ) 
(1) The usufructuary must exercise the care of the reasonable man in preserving the usufruct.  
(2) If the property is damaged or destroyed without any wrongful act or default on the part 
of the usufructuary, he shall not be liable therefor. 
  
Article (1341 )  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  311 
 The usufructuary shall be liable for the value of the thing enjoyed if it is damaged or 
destroyed after the termination of the period of the usufruct in the event that he does not 
return i t to the owner in circumstances where he could have done so, notwithstanding that 
he did not use the property after the termination of the period and notwithstanding that the 
owner may not have claimed it back.  
  
Article (1342 ) 
(1) The usufructuary must no tify the owner:  
(a) if a third party claims a right over the property enjoyed, or if it is misappropriated;  
(b) if the property is destroyed or damaged or requires major repairs of a kind for which the owner is responsible; and 
(c) if it is necessary to ta ke steps to avert a danger which had been hidden.  
(2) If the usufructuary does not give such notice, then he shall be liable for any damage 
sustained by the owner.  
  
Article (1343 ) 
(1)The beneficiary has the right to consume the movables that he benefits from, which 
cannot be used except by consuming them in kind. He must return the same or their value 
after the expiration of his right to benefit from them, and he must guarantee them if  they 
perish before benefiting from them, even without his transgression because it is a loan.  
(2) If the beneficiary of the aforementioned movables dies before returning them to their owner, he must guarantee the same or their value in his estate.  
  
Article (1344 ) 
The usufruct right expires:  
(1) Upon the expiry of fifty years, unless the document establishing it stipulates another 
period.  
(2) Destruction of the property used.  
(3) By waiver of the beneficiary.  
(4) By terminating it by court ruling for misus e.  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  312 
 (5) By uniting the roles of owner and beneficiary, unless the owner has an interest in its 
survival, such as if the property was mortgaged.  
  
Article (1345 ) 
If the specified period for usufruct has expired and the usufructed land is occupied with crops,  the land is left to the beneficiary for a similar fee until he cultivates the crops and 
reaps, unless the law stipulates otherwise. 
  
Article (1346)  
(1) If the usufruct right ends with the destruction of the thing and payment of compensation 
or insurance, the beneficiary’s right is transferred to the compensation or insurance amount.  
(2) If the loss is not due to the owner’s fault, he is not obliged to ret urn the thing to its 
original state, but if he returns it, the usufruct right is restored to the beneficiary if the loss 
was not due to it, unless otherwise agreed upon.  
  
 
  
Article (1347 ) 
The beneficiary’s waiver of the usufruct right does not a ffect his obligations to the owner of 
the beneficial property nor the rights of third parties.  
 
Article (1348 ) 
A claim for a usufruct right shall not be heard by the passage of time if fifteen years have 
elapsed since it has not been used.  
 
Part  2: Rights of use of residence  
Article (1349 ) 
It is permissible for the benefit to be based on the right of use, the right of residence, or both.    
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  313 
  
Article (1350 ) 
The extent of the right of use and the right of residence is determined solely by the needs of 
the right holder and his family, taking into account the provisions of the document estab-
lishing the right.  
  
Article (1351 ) 
It is not permissible to assign the right of use or the right of residence to others except based on an explicit condition in the document establishing the right or of extreme necessity.  
  
Article (1352 ) 
The provisions of the usufruct right apply to the right of use and the right of residence inso-far as they do not conflict with the previous provisions and the nature of these two right s. 
  
Part  3: Rights of musataha (user of the land of another)  
Article (1353 ) 
The musataha right is a real right that gives its owner the right to erect a building or plants on someone else’s land.  
Article (1354 ) 
(1) A right of musataha may be acquired by a greement or by the passage of time.  
(2) It may be transferred by inheritance or testamentary disposition.  
(3) The document creating the right shall govern the rights and obligations of the person 
having the right.  
 
Article (1355 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible to assign or pledge a right of musataha.  
(2) It shall also be permissible to create rights of easement thereover provided that they do 
not conflict with the nature thereof.  
  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  314 
   
Article (1356 ) 
(1) The period of a right of musataha  may not exceed fifty years.  
(2) If no period is specified, either the owner of the right or the owner of the reversion may 
terminate the contract by giving two years' notice in that behalf to the other.  
  
Article (1357 ) 
The owner of the r ight of musataha shall be the owner of any buildings or plants which he 
has placed upon the land, and he may dispose of them along with the right of musataha.  
  
Article (1358 ) 
A right of musataha shall cease: 
(1) upon the expiration of the period;  
(2) if a n event occurs whereby the owner of the property and the owner of the right become 
the same person; or  
(3) if the owner of the right fails to pay the agreed consideration for a period of two years, 
unless an agreement to the contrary has been made.  
  
 
Article (1359 ) 
A right of musataha shall not cease by virtue of the removal of the buildings or plants prior 
to the expiration of the period.  
 
Article (1360 ) 
Upon the termination of a right of musataha, the provisions of Article 785 of this Law shall apply  to the buildings and plants, unless an agreement to the contrary has been made.  
  
Chapter Two : Waqfs (Charitable trusts)  
Article (1361 )  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  315 
 The provisions laid down in a special law shall apply to waqfs.  
  
Chapter Three : Rights  of easement  
Part  1: Creation of rights of easement  
Article (1362 ) 
(1) An easement is a right restricting the enjoyment of real property in favour of other real 
property owned by another person.  
(2) Rights of easement may exist over public property if they are not inconsisten t with the 
use for which such property is intended.  
  
Article (1363 ) 
(1) Rights of easement may be acquired by consent or by legal disposition or by inheritance.  
(2) Openly enjoyed rights of easement may likewise be acquired by passage of time, 
including rights of way, and canal rights and rights of passage of water, unless it is 
established that the right is unlawful, in which case the damage must be made good, for however long it has existed.  
  
Article (1364 ) 
Any person who has given permission for the en joyment of a right of easement over real 
property owned by him may withdraw that permission whenever he wishes.  
  
Article (1365 ) 
(1) Restrictions imposed upon the right of an owner of real property to build shall be 
regarded as rights of easement against s uch property in favour of other real property for the 
benefit of which such rights exist, unless a contrary agreement has been made.  
(2) Any transgression of those rights shall give rise to a claim that they be made good by specific performance or by compensation if such a course is shown to be appropriate.  
  
Article (1366 )  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  316 
 If the owner of two separate properties creates an open and evident easement between 
them, the right of easement shall remain if either or both of the two properties are 
transferred to other owners without any alteration in their condition, unless an agreement to the contrary is made.  
  
Part  2: Scope of rights of easement 
Article (1367 ) 
The extent of rights of easement shall be defined in the document whereby they are created and by the custom prevailing in the place where the property concerned is, and it shall 
likewise be subject to the following provisions.  
  
Article (1368 ) 
The owner of the dominant property may exercise his rights within lawful limits, and must 
do what is necessary for the use and maintenance of his right, without increasing the degree of burden of the easement, and he may use that right in such a manner as to cause no  more 
than minimal damage.  
  
Article (1369 ) 
(1) The cost of works necessary for the enjoyment for a right of easement and the 
maintenance thereof shall be borne by the owner of the dominant property.  
(2) If the works also benefit the servient property, the costs of maintenance shall be borne by 
both parties in proportion to the benefit derived therefrom by each of them.  
(3) If the owner of the servient property is the person having the obligation to carry out 
those works at his expense, he shall always have  the right to discharge himself of such 
obligation by abandoning the servient property either in whole or in part to the owner of the dominant property.  
  
Article (1370 ) 
The owner of the servient property may not do any act such as to affect the use of the right  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  317 
 of easement nor may he alter its character unless the right of easement existing over an old 
place has become more onerous for the owner of the servient property, or if he is prevented 
from carrying out useful repairs, and in that event the owner of  such property may require 
that the right be transferred to a different place in which it may be enjoyed as easily as in the 
previous place.  
  
Article (1371 ) 
(1) If the dominant property is divided up, the right of easement shall remain in existence in 
favour of each part of it, provided that that does not increase the burden to the servient 
property.  
(2) If the right benefits only some of such parts, the owner of the servient property may 
require that it be terminated in respect of the other parts.  
  
Article (1372 ) 
(1) If the servient property is divided up, the right of easement shall remain in existence over each part of it.  
(2) However, if the right is not in fact used over some of such parts and it is not possible to use it over those parts, the owner of each part thereof may require that the right be terminated in respect of his part.  
  
Part  3: Termination of rights of easement  
Article (1373 ) 
A right of easement shall terminate upon the expiration of the period laid down therefor, or 
by virtue of the subject matter of it ceasing to exist.  
  
Article (1374 ) 
A right of easement shall terminate if the dominant and servient properties come into one 
ownership, and shall arise again if the reason for the termination, attributable to a past 
event, ceases to exist.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  318 
   
Article (1375 ) 
A right of easement shall terminate if it is impossible to exercise it by reason of a change in 
the condition of the servient  and dominant properties, and shall arise again if the condition 
reverts to what it was previously.  
 
Article (1376 ) 
A right of easement shall terminate if the owner of it annuls his use of it, and notifies the owner of the dominant property that he has wit hdrawn from the use of such right.  
  
Article (1377 ) 
A right of easement shall terminate if the purpose for which it existed in favour of the 
dominant land ceases, or if only a limited benefit remains which is incommensurate with the 
burdens imposed upon th e servient property.  
  
Article (1378 ) 
(1) No claim for a right of easement will be heard if fifteen years elapse without the right being exercised.  
(2) If there are a number of co- owners of the dominant property, use of the easement made 
by any one of them shall interrupt the period of prescription for the benefit of the remainder 
of them, and if the period of prescription stops in favour of one of the co- owners, it shall 
likewise stop for the benefit of the others.  
  
Part  4: Certain types of easement  
1- Rights of way  
Article (1379 ) 
If a right of way is established in favour of any person over land owned by another, the 
owner of that land may not prevent him from using it unless his passing over the land is an 
act performed by consent.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  319 
   
Article (1380 ) 
The o wner of land not connected to a public highway, or land which could only be joined to 
a public highway at exorbitant or oppressive expense, shall have a right of way over 
neighbouring land to the customary extent in respect of payment of reasonable 
consideration, and such right may only be exercised over such part of the neighbouring land 
as causes the least amount of damage, and over such part as will achieve the necessary purpose.  
  
Article (1381 ) 
If connection with a public highway is prevented by reason  of the dividing up of the land by 
a legal disposition, a right of way may only be required over parts of that land.  
  
2- Right to draw water  
Article (1382 ) 
The right to draw water is the taking of turns to have the use of water for the irrigation o f 
land or crops.  
  
Article (1383 ) 
Each person may have the use of the water sources, courses and canals which are for the 
public benefit, in accordance with the provisions laid down by special laws and regulations.  
  
Article (1384 ) 
(1) If a person makes a stream or water course for the irrigation of his land, no other person 
shall have the right to use it save by his consent.  
(2) Nevertheless it shall be permissible for neighbouring owners to use a stream or water 
course as required for the irrigation of th eir land after the owner has satisfied his need 
therefrom, and the neighbouring owners must, in that event, share in the costs of making 
and maintaining the stream or water course in proportion to the area of their land in respect  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  320 
 of which they benefit fro m it.  
  
Article (1385 ) 
No co- owner of a source of water or of a co- owned stream may create another channel from 
it save by the consent of the other co- owners.  
  
Article (1386 ) 
If the owners of the right to draw water do not agree to carry out necessary repairs to the 
source of the water or tributaries or a co- owned stream, it shall be permissible to compel 
them to do so in proportion to the shares of each of them upon the application of any of them.  
  
Article (1387 ) 
The right to draw water may be inherited,  and the benefit thereof disposed of by 
testamentary disposition, but may not be sold save with the land, nor may it be given by gift, 
or leased.  
 
3- Rights of passage of water  
Article (1388 ) 
(1) A right of passage of water is the right of a land owner to have water for irrigation flow over the land of another in order to reach his land from a source remote from it.  
(2) If such right is established in favour of any person, the owners of land ov er which the 
water flows may not block its passage.  
  
Article (1389 ) 
If a right of passage of water is established in favour of any person over the property of another and it causes damage to him, the owner of the right of passage must rep air it to 
remove the damage, and if he fails to do so the owner of the other land may do so at the 
expense of the owner of the right of passage, up to the customary limit.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  321 
   
Article (1390 ) 
(1) Any owner of land wishing to irrigate his land from either natural or artificial sources 
which he has a right to use may create a passage of water over the land situated between his land and such sources provided that he pays immediate compensation therefor and on 
condition that such act does not substantially interfe re with the enjoyment of the 
intermediate property by the owner thereof, and if the land does sustain damage as a result 
thereof, the owner of the land may require compensation for such damage as he has 
sustained.  
(2) The owner of land must grant permissio n for the placing of the installations necessary for 
the right of passage of water to neighbouring land in consideration of compensation to be 
paid in advance, and he may have the use of such installations provided that he bears the costs of their erection  and the use he makes of them in a proportion commensurate with the 
benefit he derives therefrom.  
  
Article (1391 ) 
If an owner of land suffers damage by reason of the installations referred to in the foregoing paragraph, he may require the persons having the benefit thereof to make good the damage caused.  
   
4- The right to free flow 
Article (1392 ) 
Free flow is the flowing or drainage of water which is either unusable or exceeds the 
requirement of the land of another over which it flows.  
  
Article (1393 ) 
(1) Low ground is subject to an accumulation of water naturally flowing from high ground 
without any human intervention in the flow.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  322 
 (2) The owner of the lower ground may not make a dam preventing such flow.  
(3) Likewise, the owner of the higher ground may n ot do anything which increases the 
burden on the lower ground.    
  
Article (1394 ) 
An owner of agricultural land shall have the right to draw off unusable water or water which 
is in excess of the requirements of the land over which it flows, in consideration of 
appropriate compensation.  
  
Article (1395 ) 
The owners of land over which water flows naturally may make use of installations for the 
drawing off of such water provided that each of them bears the cost of erecting, modifying 
and maintaining such installations in proportion to the benefit derived therefrom by each of 
them.  
  
Article (1396 ) 
No person may create a harmful flow of water on to land owned by another or on to a public 
or private road, and the dama ge shall be made good notwithstanding that it may have been 
continuing for a long time.  
  
 
Article (1397 ) 
Owners of new installations may not divert the flow of water produced thereby on to the 
land of another without his consent, unless they have a right to do so.  
  
Article (1398 ) 
(1) An owner of land may modify the surface thereof in such a way that rain water flows on 
chis land or on to a public highway, subject to the special laws and regulations.  
(2) It shall not be permissible for him to create a flow of water on to neighbouring land,  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  323 
 unless he has an old established right to do so.  
  
Book Four: Securities Over Property  
Section 1: Pledge (or mortgage) by way of security  
Chapter One: Definition and creation of a pledge by way of security  
Article (1399 ) 
A pledge by way of security is a contract whereby an obligee acquires, over real property 
allocated for the satisfaction of his debt, a right in rem whereby he shall take precedence 
over ordinary obligees and obligees subsequent in rank to him in the satis faction of his right 
out of the proceeds of such land, in the possession of whomsoever it may be.  
  
Article (1400 ) 
A pledge by way of security may only be made by registration thereof, and the pledgor shall 
be bound to pay the costs of the contract unless a contrary agreement is made.  
 
Article (1401 ) 
(1) The pledgor must be the owner of the land pledged, and capable of making dispositi ons 
thereover.  
(2) It shall be permissible for a pledgor to be the debtor guarantor of a specific right 
providing a pledge in favour of the obligor.  
  
Article (1402 ) 
It shall not be permissible to pledge the property of a third party save with the consent of the 
true owner by a notarised instrument.  
  
Article (1403 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for a father to pledge his property to his minor child, and in the event that there is no father, the true grandfather may pledge his property held by such 
minor.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  324 
 (2) If the father is owed a debt by his minor son, he may take a pledge of the property of his 
child for himself.  
(3) The father or true grandfather may pledge the property of a minor for a debt owed by the 
minor himself.  
(4) He may also pledge the property of one of his minor children for another minor son of 
his for a debt owed to him by such other.  
(5) Neither the father nor the true grandfather may pledge property of the minor child for a debt owed to a person who is a stranger to the father or grandfather . 
(6) The consent of the court must be obtained in the circumstances referred to in paragraphs 
2, 3 and 4.  
  
Article (1404 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for a guardian with the consent of the court to pledge property of a 
minor or a person under a restricti on to a stranger for a debt owed to him by either of them.  
(2) It shall not be permissible for him to pledge his property held by a minor or person under 
a restriction, nor to take a pledge of the property of either of such persons for himself.  
  
Article (1405 ) 
The real property pledged by way of security pledge must be present and in existence when 
the pledge is made.  
  
 
Article (1406 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for there to be a security pledge save over real property which 
may be dealt in and sold by public auction or a right in rem over real property.  
(2) It shall be permissible for the court to set aside a contract of pledge by way of security if the land pledged has not been sufficiently described.  
  
Article (1407 ) 
A pledge by way of security shal l include the appurtenances of the land by way of buildings,  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  325 
 growing things, and things which have become part of the land of affixation, and any new 
buildings erected on the land after the contract was made.  
  
Article (1408) 
(1) A co -owner of co- owned pro perty may pledge his share, and the pledge shall be 
transferred, after division, to the separate share falling to his portion, having regard to the 
registration thereof with the land registry.  
(2) Sums owing to him out of the shares or the proceeds of sale  of the land shall be 
appropriated towards satisfaction of the debt for which the pledge was made.  
  
Article (1409 ) 
The consideration for a pledge way of security must be an ascertained debt owed or promised, specified at the time of the pledge, or specifi c property which is guaranteed.  
  
Article (1410 ) 
A pledge by way of security shall be indivisible, and each part of the real property pledged shall stand as security for the whole of the debt and each part of the debt secured by the real 
property pledged.  
  
Article (1411 ) 
The provisions relating to pledges by way of security shall apply to moveable property which the special laws provide must be registered.  
  
Chapter Two:  Effects of a pledge by way of security  
Part  1: Effect of the pledge as between the con tracting parties  
1- In relation to the pledgor  
Article (1412 ) 
A pledgor may dispose of his real property which is pledged by way of security without the same affecting the rights of the pledgee.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  326 
   
Article (1413 ) 
(1) The pledgor shall have the right to mana ge the property pledged and to obtain the yield 
thereof up to the date on which he is compulsorily divested of ownership upon his failure to 
pay the debt.  
(2) The yield of the real property pledged shall attach to such property as from the date of divestin g of ownership.  
 
Article (1414 ) 
The pledgor shall be the guarantor of the property pledged and he shall be liable in full for its safety until the date the debt is paid.  The pledgee may make objection to any shortfall in 
his security and may take such ste ps as will preserve his right, and shall have recourse 
against the pledgor for the costs of so doing.  
  
Article (1415 ) 
(1) If the property pledged is destroyed or damaged through the default of the pledgor, the pledgee shall have the right to require that  his debt be paid immediately or that sufficient 
security for his debt be provided.  
(2) If the loss or damage occurs through a cause with which the pledgor had nothing to do, he may elect between providing sufficient security for the debt or discharging th e debt prior 
to the maturity date thereof.  
(3) If acts take place which are such as to expose the property pledged to destruction or 
damage or which may render the property insufficient as a security, then the pledgee may 
apply to the court for an order th at such acts cease and that steps be taken to prevent any 
damage occurring.  
  
Article (1416 ) 
A pledge by way of security shall, upon the destruction of or occurrence of damage to the land, be transferred to the property which takes its place by way of compensation or 
insurance monies or consideration for expropriation for the public benefit, and the pledgee  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  327 
 may satisfy his right out of such property in accordance with the rank which he holds.  
  
Article (1417 ) 
If the pledgor is a guarantor in rem, it shall not be permissible to recover the debt otherwise 
than that of the property pledged, and he may not exercise a recourse against the debtor 
prior to execution against his property.  
  
2- In relation to the obligee- pledgee 
Article (1418 ) 
A pledgee of a pledge b y way of security may assign his right to another person provided 
that the debtor consents, and the deed of assignment shall be registered with the land 
registry.  
 
Article (141 9) 
(1) A pledgee may satisfy his debt out of the land pledged upon the debt fall ing due in 
accordance with the rank which he holds after taking the steps laid down in the law of 
procedures before the civil courts, and special laws.  
(2) If the land is insufficient to satisfy his debt, he may have recourse for the balance of his 
debt against the assets of the debtor as an ordinary creditor.  
  
Article (1420 ) 
(1) If it is a condition of the contract of pledge by way of security that the ownership of the 
property pledged be vested in the pledgee in consideration for his debt in the event th at the 
pledgor does not pay at the specified time, or if there is a condition that it be sold regardless 
of the legal procedures, the pledge shall be valid but the condition shall be void.  
(2) The condition shall also be void notwithstanding that it may ha ve been made by 
subsequent agreement.  
  
Article (1421 )  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  328 
 (1) A lease already granted by the pledgor shall be of no effect as against the pledgee unless 
it is proved that it antedated the pledge.  
(2) A lease granted commencing after the expiration of a lease already granted shall be of 
absolutely no effect as against the pledgee unless it is recorded in the contract of pledge.  
 
Part  2: Effects of a pledge by way of security in relation to the non- contracting parties  
1- General Provisions  
Article (1422)  
A ple dge by way of security shall be effective as against the non -contracting parties as from 
the date of registration thereof prior to third parties acquiring rights in rem over the property 
pledged.  
  
Article (1423 ) 
The effect of a pledge by way of security s hall be restricted to the sum specified in the deed 
of pledge registered with the land registry, unless there is a contrary stipulation in the law or 
by way of agreement.  
  
Article (1424 ) 
Neither an assignment of a pledge by way of security nor a waiver th ereof or of the status 
thereof shall be effective as against the non -contracting parties unless the same is noted on 
the original instrument giving rise to the right, and registered.  
2- Order of priorities  
Article (1425 ) 
(1) Debts owing to obligee- pledgee s under pledges by way of security shall be paid out of 
the proceeds of the land pledged or the property which takes its place in accordance with 
the ranking of each of them, notwithstanding that they may have effected the registration on 
the same day.  
(2) Such rank shall be noted by serial number on the registration, and if several persons 
come forward at the same time to register their pledges against one obligor and over the same land, such pledges shall be registered under one number, and those creditor s shall be  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  329 
 regarded as being of equal rank upon distribution.  
  
Article (1426 ) 
It shall be permissible for an obligee- pledgee to assign the rank of his pledge up to the 
amount of his debt to another obligee- pledgee over the same property pledged, and it sh all 
be permissible to rely, in respect of such ranking, as against that other creditor on all 
arguments upon which it would have been permissible to rely as against the original creditor save in respect of those matters connected with the expiration of the rights of the first 
creditor if such expiration took place subsequent to the assignment of his rank.  
  
Article (1427 ) 
(1) A pledge by way of security shall rank as from the date of registration thereof.  
(2) It shall retain its rank until an entry is made at the land registry indicating that it has 
expired.  
  
Article (1428 ) 
Registration of a pledge by way of security shall result in the costs of the contract and 
registration being implicitly included in the debt covered by the pledge, and at the same rank 
which it has.  
  
3- Rights of following 
Article (1429 ) 
An obligee- pledgee by way of security shall have the right to follow the property pledged 
into the hands of whomsoever may be in possession of it in order to obtain satisfaction of his debt upon maturity , in accordance with his rank.  
  
Article (1430 ) 
An obligee- pledgee by way of security may take steps to divest the ownership of the 
property pledged and to sell the same if the debt has not been paid at the due time, after  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  330 
 giving notice to the debtor and t he person in possession of the land in accordance with the 
procedures laid down in the law of procedures before the civil courts, and special laws.  
  
Article (1431 ) 
Any person in whom ownership of or another right in rem over the property pledged has 
become vested for any reason shall be deemed to be a person in possession, without his 
being personally obliged in respect of the debt covered by the pledge.  
  
Article (1432 ) 
A person in possession of land pledged by way of security may pay the debt covered by the pledge together with expenses after notification being given to him, and provided that he 
shall have a right of recourse against the debtor in respect of what he has paid and he may 
also take the place of the creditor who has obtained satisfaction of h is debt, in respect of 
such rights as he has.  
  
Article (1433 ) 
A person in possession of land pledged by way of security shall have the right to disencumber the land which has passed to him of any right in rem over it attaching by way of security for a reg istered debt, by paying the debt prior to proceedings being taken for the 
land to be sold, or at such times as are laid down by the Law of Procedures before the Civil Courts and the special laws.  
  
Article (1434 ) 
The proceedings for compulsory divesting of  ownership for non- payment of a debt shall be 
taken in accordance with the provisions of the Law of Procedures before the Civil Courts, 
and special laws.  
  
Article (1435 ) 
It shall be permissible for a person in possession of land pledged by way of securit y to  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  331 
 intervene in the proceedings for the sale of the land by auction, and if the sale is awarded to 
him and he pays the price he shall be deemed to be the owner of the land under the original 
deed of ownership, and the land shall be freed of the right reg istered.  
  
Article (1436 ) 
If the sale under the auction of land pledged by way of security is awarded to a person other than the person in possession of it, he shall acquire it under the order made in the auction, 
and may obtain satisfaction of his right from the person in possession of it.  
  
Article (1437 ) 
(1) The person in possession shall be liable for any damage or harm that may befall the land 
pledged in accordance with the rules relating to guarantees (liability) laid down in this Code.  
(2) He must re nder up the yield of the land as from the date he is given notice to pay the 
debt.  
  
Article (1438 ) 
If the proceeds of the land sold exceed the value of the debts secured, the excess shall belong to the person in possession, and his obligee- pledgees may recover their debts 
thereout.  
  
Article (1439 ) 
(1) The person in possession may have recourse by way of claim for guarantee against the 
previous owner up to the amount claimed by the successor against the person from whom he has obtained ownership by way of contract or gift.  
(2) The person in possession may also have recourse against the debtor for any amount paid in excess of amounts owing by him under the deed of ownership, whatever may be the 
cause of his having paid such excess.  He shall take the place of the creditors whose rights he 
has discharged, and in particular he shall take their place in connection with securities 
provided by the debtor to the exclusion of securities provided by persons other than the 
debtor.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  332 
  
Chapter Three:  Expiry of pledges by way of security  
Article (1440 ) 
(1) A pledge by way of security shall expire upon the expiration of the debt secured in full.  
(2) If the cause of the expiration of the debt ceases to exist, the pledge shall arise again as it 
was before without prejudice to the rights of persons acting in good faith acquired by them 
during the period between the expiration and the re- arising of the right.  
  
Article (1441 ) 
(1) A debtor may pay the debt secured by the pledge by way of security and the appurtenances thereof prior to the time for the payment of it.  
(2) If the creditor does not accept such discharge, the debtor may deposit the money with the land registry which shall, after ascertaining the value thereof, settle the amount owed by 
the debtor and deliver to him the deed of discharge and termination of the pledge, regard 
being had therein to special laws.  
  
Article (1442 ) 
The pledge shall terminate upon the sale of the property pledged in accordance with the law of procedures before the civil courts and special laws a nd payment of the proceeds to the 
obligee- pledgees in accordance with the ranking of each of them, or the deposit.  
  
Article (1443 ) 
A pledge by way of security shall expire upon the transfer of ownership of the property 
pledged to the pledgee or the transf er of the right of pledge to the pledgor, and provided that 
it shall rearise upon the cessation of the cause of its originally expiring, with retroactive 
effect.  
  
Article (1444 ) 
A pledge by way of security shall expire if the obligee- pledgee waives the sa me.  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  333 
   
Article (1445 ) 
(1) A pledge by way of security shall expire upon the destruction of the subject matter 
thereof.  
(2) The provisions relating to the destruction of property pledged as laid down in this Code 
shall be observed.  
  
Article (1446 ) 
(1) If th e limitation period for a debt guaranteed expires, it shall be permissible for the 
pledgee to apply for an order releasing the pledge.  
(2) If the land pledged is transferred to the person in possession, he may raise the defence 
that the debt secured by the pledge is time- barred if the pledgee fails without excuse to raise 
a claim against him under the pledge for a period of 15 years.  
  
Article (1447 ) 
A pledge by way of security shall not expire upon the death of the pledgor or of the pledgee, 
but shall rema in in effect with the heirs. 
  
 
Section 2:  Possessory pledges (mortgages)  
Chapter One:  Definition and creation of possessory pledges  
Article (1448 ) 
A possessory pledge is a contract giving rise to a right to retain the property in the hands of 
the obligee or the hands of a stakeholder by way of security for a right which may be 
recovered thereout in whole or in part in priority over other obligees.  
  
Article (1449 ) 
Property pledged by way of possessory pledge must be capable of delivery at the time the 
pledge is made, and capable of being sold by public auction.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  334 
   
Article (1450 ) 
(1) A pledge of fruit before ripening shall be valid, but it may only be enforced against after it 
has ripened.  If the pledgor becomes bankrupt or dies before the fruit ripens, the pledgee 
shall rank with the other creditors in obtaining satisfaction of his debt out of the other assets 
of the pledgor.  
(2) If the fruit ripens after the distribution and is sold, and the proceeds are allocated to the 
pledgee, everything which he has tak en in the distribution shall be returned to the other 
creditors if the proceeds thereof are equal to his debt.  If the proceeds are less, he shall return 
to them the excess of what he has taken, notwithstanding that he may initially have shared 
with them i n respect of the balance of his debt after the proceeds of the fruit pledged 
appropriated to him.  
  
Article (1451 ) 
It shall be permissible to pledge perishable goods for a deferred debt, and such property 
shall be retained if possible, but if not it shall be sold by public auction and the proceeds 
shall take the place of the pledge.  
 
  
Article (1452 ) 
The consideration for a possessory pledge must be an ascertained debt owed or promised, specified upon the pledge being made, or real property secured.  
  
Article (1453 ) 
In order for a possessory pledge to be perfected, the obligee or the stakeholder must take possession of it, and the pledgor may resile from the pledge prior to delivery.  
  
Article (1454 ) 
If the pledgor becomes subject to any restriction on makin g dispositions of his property  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  335 
 before the pledgee takes possession of the property pledged, the contract of pledge shall be 
void.  
  
Article (1455 ) 
The pledgor or the pledgee may agree to place the property pledged by way of possessory pledge in the hands of a stakeholder, in which event possession by the stakeholder shall 
stand as possession by the pledgee and the pledge shall be perfected upon possession being taken.  
  
Article (1456 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for the stakeholder to deliver the proper ty pledged to the 
pledgor or the pledgee without the consent of the other so long as the debt remains in existence, and he may recover the property if he has delivered it.  
(2) If the property pledged is lost before recovery, the stakeholder shall be liable for the 
value thereof.  
  
Article (1457 ) 
If the stakeholder dies and the pledgor and pledgee do not agree to deposit the property with another person, it shall be permissible for either of them to request the court to order that it be placed in the possess ion of a stakeholder selected by it.  
  
Article (1458 ) 
The pledgor by way of possessory pledge in respect of a debt owed by him or by another person must be the owner of the property pledged and be competent to make dispositions 
over it.  
  
Article (1459 ) 
The provisions relating to pledges by way of security set out in Articles 1403 and 1404 of 
this Code shall apply to possessory pledges.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  336 
   
Article (1460 ) 
The provisions relating to pledges by way of security set out in Article 1408 of this Code 
shall apply to  pledges of co- owned property.  
  
Article (1461 ) 
If a part of co- owned land or the like is pledged, the pledgee may take possession of the 
whole if the remainder is owned by the pledgor, and if it is owned by other parties, he may only take possession of the part pledged.    
  
Article (1462 ) 
The provisions relating to the indivisibility of property pledged by way of security for a debt 
laid down in Article 1410 of this Code shall apply to possessory pledges, and the whole of 
such property shall remain as sec urity for the whole or part of the debt.  
  
Article (1463 ) 
A possessory pledge shall include all of the appurtenances of the property pledged which would have been included in a sale.  
  
Article (1464 ) 
If the property pledged by way of possessory pledge produces a yield while in the possession of the purchaser (sic) which is distinct from it but of the same nature, such yield shall form 
part of the pledge, but if it is not of the same nature, it shall not form part of it unless it has 
been agreed in the contr act of pledge that it should do so.  
  
Article (1465 ) 
(1) It shall be permissible for property pledged by way of possessory pledge to stand as security for more than one debt ranking at the same level on condition that it is pledged 
under one contract.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  337 
 (2) The whole of the property shall be a pledge with each of the obligees in respect of his 
debt.  
  
Article (1466 ) 
(1) Property on loan may be pledged with the consent of the lending owner and upon the 
conditions laid down by him.  
(2) The lender may not recover the property pledged prior to the discharge of the debt.  
  
Chapter Two:  Effects of a possessory pledge  
Part 1:  Effects of the pledge as between the contracting parties  
1- With regard to the pledgor  
Article (1467 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for the pledgor to dispose of the goods pledged by way of 
possessory pledge save with the consent of the pledgee.  
(2) If such disposition is by way of sale, the right of the pledgee shall transfer to the proceeds 
of the property pledged.  
  
Article (1468 ) 
(1) If th e pledgor makes an acknowledgment in favour of a third party in respect of the 
goods pledged by way of possessory pledge his acknowledgment shall be of no effect as 
against the pledgee.  
(2) Such acknowledgment shall not affect the right of the pledgee to detain the property pledged until such time as the debt is discharged.  
  
Article (1469 ) 
The pledgor shall ensure the safety of the goods pledged and he may not do anything to them which lessens their value as security or which interferes with the exercise b y the 
pledgee of his rights.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  338 
 Article (1470 ) 
The provisions relating to destruction of or damage to goods pledged arising out of the 
default of the pledgor or by way of unavoidable accident laid down in Article 1415 of this 
Code shall apply to possessory pledges.  
 
Article (1471 ) 
If the goods pledged are damaged or destroyed, the possessory pledge shall attach to the 
property which replaces it and the pledgee may satisfy his rights thereout in accordance 
with the provisions of Article 1416 of this Code.  
  
2- With regard to the obligee/pledgee 
Article (1472 ) 
The pledgee must keep the goods pledged by way of possessory pledge himself or with a trustee, and he must exercise the care of a reasonable man over them.  He shall be 
responsible for their loss or dest ruction unless the same is attributable to a cause in which 
he had no hand.  
  
Article (1473 ) 
The pledgee may not dispose of the goods pledged without the consent of the pledgor, and it shall not be permissible for him to dispose of them unless he is an age nt for sale.  
  
Article (1474 ) 
(1) It shall not be permissible for the pledgee to enjoy the use of the property pledged by way of possessory pledge, whether moveable or immoveable property, without the consent 
of the pledgor.  
(2) The pledgor may permit the pledgee to have the use of the property pledged provided 
that the benefit derived from it is deducted firstly from the expenses which he has incurred 
on behalf of the pledgor, and secondly from the principal amount of the debt.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  339 
 Article (1475 ) 
It shall be  permissible for a pledgee to stipulate that he should have the beneficial use of the 
thing pledged for himself if a fixed time or purpose is laid down therefor, and the (value of 
the) benefit is to be deducted from the debt whether it be a debt by way of sale or loan, and if it is not deducted from the debt then (the pledgee) may not stipulate that he should have 
such beneficial use if the debt is by way of loan, and it shall be permissible, if the debt is by 
way of a deferred price on a sale, and that is stipulated in the contract of sale.  
  
Article (1476 ) 
If the obligee misuses the property pledged, the pledgor shall have the right to require that 
the property pledged be placed in the possession of a stakeholder.  
  
Article (1477 ) 
The pledgee may retain th e property pledged by way of possessory pledge until such time as 
his debt is discharged in full together with all appurtenances or costs thereof, and thereafter 
he must return the property pledged to the pledgor.  
  
Article (1478 ) 
(1) If the property pledg ed is lost while in the possession of the pledgee, he shall be the 
guarantor of the value thereof at the time he took possession of it.  
(2) If the value of the property is equivalent to the value guaranteed by him, the debt shall 
lapse whether the loss occ urred through the wrongful act of the pledgee or not.  
(3) If the value is greater than the debt, the debt shall lapse with regard to the pledgor, and 
the pledgee shall be liable for the balance if the loss was through his wrongful act or default 
in preserving the property.  
(4) If the value of the property is less than the debt, the debt shall be reduced pro tanto, and 
the obligee shall have a right of recourse for the balance of the debt as against the pledgor.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  340 
 Article (1479 ) 
A pledgee by way of possessory pledge shall have the rights of a pledgee by way of security 
pledge in executing against the property pledged and thereafter against all of the assets of 
the obligor in the event of failure to make full satisfaction of his debt as set out in Article 1419 of this Code.  
  
Article (1480 ) 
The provisions of Article 1420 of this Code shall apply to a possessory pledge.  
  
Part  2: Effects of a pledge in relation to parties other than the contracting 
parties  
Article (1481 ) 
In order for a possessory pledge to be effective as against the non -contracting parties, the 
property pledged must be in the possession of the pledgee- obligee or of a stakeholder to 
whom both parties consent.  
  
Article (1482 ) 
The pledgee may detain the property pledged in his possession until his debt is satisfied in 
full together with the appurtenances and costs thereof, and if he loses possession of the 
property through reasons beyond his control he shall have a right to recover the same.  
Article (1483 ) 
The property pledged by way of possessory pledge shall stand as security for the principal 
amount of the debt and the necessary expenses incurred by the pledgee on behalf of the pledgor, together with the costs of the contract of pledge and the enforcement thereof.  
  
Chapter Three:  Special provisions relating to certain possessory pledges  
Part  1: Possessory pledges of land  
Article (1484 ) 
A possessory pledge of land shall not be deemed to be effective as against the  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  341 
 non -contracting parties unless it is registered, in addition to the (actual) possession by the 
obligee- pledgee of the property pledged.  
  
Article (1485 ) 
(1) An obligee -pledgee may lend the land pledged by wayof possessory pledge or may lease 
it to the pledgor and provided that the land pledged shal l remain as security for payment of 
the debt, and without that affecting the effectiveness of the pledge as against the 
non‑contracting parties.  
(2) With regard to rent paid by the pledgor, the provisions of Article 1474 of this Code shall 
be followed in c onnection with an advantage obtained out of the property pledged.  
  
Article (1486 ) 
The obligee- pledgee shall discharge the necessary costs of repairing the property pledged 
and maintaining the same, as well as taxes and imposts due thereon, and provided th at he 
may deduct the same from the yield of the land pledged or from the price thereof upon sale, 
in accordance with the rank of his debt.  
  
Part  2: Pledges of moveable property  
Article (1487 ) 
A pledge of moveable property by way of possessory pledge shall not be deemed to be 
effective as against the non -contracting parties unless an instrument is made of fixed date 
setting out the debt, and the property pledged, together with the fact of the tr ansfer of 
possession to the pledgee.  
  
Article (1488 ) 
If the property pledged is threatened with loss, damage or detriment to its value, the pledgee 
shall notify the pledgor thereof, and if the pledgor does not provide another security to the 
pledgee, it s hall be permissible for each of them to apply to the court for the sale of the 
property pledged, whereupon the right of the obligee shall be transferred to the proceeds.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  342 
   
Article (1489 ) 
It shall be permissible for a pledgor to apply to the court for leave to sell the thing pledged if 
an opportunity arises to sell the same by way of a profitable contract, notwithstanding that 
that may be prior to the maturity date of the debt, and the court shall, upon granting leave, 
fix the conditions of sale and shall make a determination as to the depositing of the 
proceeds.  
  
Article (1490 ) 
The foregoing provisions shall apply to the extent that they do not conflict with commercial laws and special laws consistent with the Islamic Shari'a.  
  
Part  3: Pledges of debts  
Article (1491 ) 
A person who pledges a debt owing to him must deliver the instrument proving such debt to the pledgee.  
  
Article (1492 ) 
(1) A pledge of a debt shall not be effective as against the debtor unless he is notified of such 
pledge or he consents t hereto.  
(2) It shall not be effective as against any person other than the debtor unless the pledgee is 
in possession of the instrument evidencing the debt pledged.  
(3) The pledge shall rank as from the date on which notification or acceptance is proved to have taken place.  
  
Article (1493 ) 
A pledge of instruments in favour of a named person or promissory notes shall be made in the special way laid down by law for the assignment thereof, but provided that it shall be 
stated that the assignment has taken place by way of pledge.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  343 
   
Article (1494 ) 
It shall not be permissible to pledge a debt which cannot be assigned or attached.  
  
Article (1495 ) 
A pledgee may recover his periodical entitlements to the debt pledged and the costs 
connected therewith, and he must in that event deduct the same from the costs, and 
thereafter from the principal amount of the debt.  
 
Article (1496 ) 
The obligee- pledgee must preserve the debt pledged, and if he is entitled to recover anything 
out of that debt without the intervention of the pledgor, he must recover it at the time and 
place specified for satisfaction, and must notify the pledgor thereof.  
  
Article (1497 ) 
A debtor in respect of a pledged debt may rely as against the creditor -pledgee on defences 
relating to the validity of the right secured by the pledge, and likewise on defences which he 
may have as against his original creditor, all of the above to the sam e extent to which it 
would be permissible for the debtor, in the event of an assignment, to rely on such defences 
as against the assignee.  
Article (1498 ) 
(1) A debtor under a pledged debt must pay the debt to the pledgor and the pledgee together if it fall s due prior to the maturity of the debt secured by the pledge.  
(2) The pledgor and the pledgee may agree to deposit monies paid by the debtor with a stakeholder until the debt secured falls due, and the right arising out of the pledge shall be transferred to the monies deposited.  
  
Article (1499 ) 
If the debt pledged and the debt secured by the pledg e both become due for payment and  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  344 
 the pledgee does not obtain satisfaction of his right, it shall permissible for him to take out of 
the debt pledged that which is owed to him and to return the balance to the pledgor, 
provided that the right to which he is  entitled and the debt pledged are of the same type, 
otherwise it shall be permissible for him to require that the debt pledged be sold or that he 
become the owner thereof for its value in satisfaction of his right.  
  
Article (1500 ) 
The provisions relating  to pledges of moveable property by way of possessory pledge shall 
apply to pledges of debts, to the extent that they do not conflict with the foregoing 
provisions.  
  
Chapter Four:  Termination of possessory pledges  
Article (1501 ) 
A possessory pledge shall terminate upon the termination of the debt secured in full, and shall rearise with it if the cause for the termination of the debt ceases to exist, without 
prejudice to rights which third parties acting in good faith may have lawfully acquired 
during the p eriod between the expiry of the debt and the rearising thereof.  
  
Article (1502 ) 
A possessory pledge shall also terminate upon any of the following causes: ‑ 
(a) by a waiver by the obligee- pledgee of his right to the pledge, whether expressed or 
implied;  
(b) if the right arising out of the pledge merges with a right of ownership in the possession of 
one person, but provided that it shall arise again retrospectively if the cause (of such merger) ceases to exist; or  
(c) the destruction of the property, or the expiration of the right pledged.  
  
Article (1503 ) 
A possessory pledge shall not cease upon the death of the pledgor or of the pledgee, but  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  345 
 shall remain as a pledge with the heirs until the debt is satisfied.  
 
Section 3:  Priority rights (liens)  
Chapter One:  General provisions  
Article (1504 ) 
A priority right is a specific right over property following (such property), conferring upon 
the obligee priority status in obtaining his right in accordance with his bargain and as 
acknowledged by law.  
  
Article (1505 ) 
(1) If the law does not lay down the rank of the priority right, it shall rank below the other 
rights referred to in this Chapter.  
(2) If rights rank equally, then they shall be satisfied in proportion to each unless the law requires otherwise.  
  
Article (1506 ) 
A general priority in an obligee shall apply to all of the assets of an obligor, but a particular 
priority shall only take effect over specific real or moveable property.  
  
 
Article (1507 ) 
(1) A priority right shall not affect the rights of a person in possession of moveable property 
if he is acting in good faith.  
(2) A tenant of land shall be deemed to be a person in possession within the meaning of the 
foregoing paragraph in relation to moveable property located on the land leased, and a hotelier sh all also havethat status in relation to the belongings of the guests.  
(3) A person having a priority right over moveable property may, if he fears that it will be lost or disposed of, require that it be placed under protection.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  346 
 Article (1508 ) 
(1) The pro visions relating to pledges for security shall apply to priority rights over real 
property, to the extent that they do not conflict with the nature thereof.  
(2) Priority rights securing rights due to the public treasury and the fees and costs of judicial 
sales shall not be registrable.  
  
Article (1509 ) 
The provisions relating to pledges for security in connection with the destruction of or damage to property shall apply to priority rights.  
 
Article (1510 ) 
Priority rights shall terminate in the same manner in which rights under pledges for security and possessory pledges may terminate, and in accordance with the provisions for 
termination of those kinds of right unless there is a provision to the contrary. 
  
Chapter  Two:  Types of priority rights  
Part  1: General provisions 
Article (1511 ) 
The rights described in the following provisions shall be priority rights with their rank 
therein, and shall be satisfied as among themselves in proportion to each of them, in  
addition to the priority rights laid down in special provisions.  
 
Part  2: General priority rights and particular priority rights over moveable 
property 
Article (1512 ) 
(1) Judicial costs expended for the common benefit of creditors in preserving the proper ty of 
the debtor and selling the same shall give rise to a priority right over the proceeds of such 
property.  
(2) Such expenses shall be recovered before any other right notwithstanding that it may be a  
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  347 
 priority right or secured by a pledge by way of secur ity, including the rights of creditors who 
have expended money for their benefit, and the costs incurred in selling the property shall 
rank above the costs incurred in the proceedings for distribution.  
  
Article (1513 ) 
(1) Taxes, imposts and other rights o f any kind whatsoever owing to the government shall 
constitute a priority right upon the conditions laid down in the laws made in that behalf.  
(2) Such monies owed shall be recovered from the proceeds of property encumbered by 
such priority, in the possession of whomsoever it may be, in preference to any other right 
notwithstanding that the same may be a priority right or secured by a pledge, with the 
exception of judicial costs.  
  
Article (1514 ) 
Costs expended in preserving or repairing moveable property s hall give rise to a priority 
right thereover and shall be recovered out of the proceeds thereof after judicial expenses 
and sums owed to the public treasury.  
  
Article (1515 ) 
(1) The following rights shall stand as priority rights over all of the assets of a debtor, both 
moveable and immoveable, to the extent to which monies are due on those rights in respect 
of the last six months:  
(a) expenses incurred (by others) due by a debtor to persons who have been compelled to bear such expenses;  
(b) monies due for  the supply of food, clothing and medicine to the debtor or the person 
supporting him.  
(2) Such sums may be recovered directly after judicial costs, monies due to the public 
treasury and the costs of preserv ing and repairing property, and as between themselves shall 
be recovered in proportion to each of them.  
    
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  348 
 Article (1516 ) 
(1) The cost of seeds, manure and other fertilizing materials, insecticides, and the costs of 
sowing and harvesting shall be a priority debt over the produce in the production of which it 
has been expended, and all such expenses shall rank equally and be r ecoverable out of the 
proceeds after prior rights, if any.  
(2) Likewise, the cost of agricultural machinery and repair expenses thereof shall be a 
priority debt over it at the same rank.  
  
Article (1517 ) 
The rent for agricultural property and land for two years or for the period of the tenancy if 
less, and every other right vested in the landlord under the contract of tenancy shall 
constitute a priority right over moveable property on the property leased and owned by the 
tenant, and which may be attached, a s well as the agricultural produce.  
  
Article (1518 ) 
The priority right for the rent referred to in the foregoing Article shall attach notwithstanding that the moveable property may be owned by the wife of the tenant or a third party of 
whose right the lan dlord is unaware, without prejudice to the special provisions relating to 
stolen or lost chattels.  
   
Article (1519 ) 
(1) A priority rig ht in respect of a tenancy debt shall attach to chattels and produce which are 
on the property leased notwithstanding that they may be owned by a sub- tenant, if the 
landlord has not permitted the first tenant to lease the property to another person.  
(2) If  the lessor has permitted the first tenant to sublet the property leased to another person, 
the priority right shall only apply to money due to the first tenant by the subtenant.  
 
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  349 
 Article (1520 ) 
The landlord shall have the right to follow  property encumbered by a priority right if it is 
removed from the land leased without his knowledge or consent, and sufficient assets do 
not remain upon the land to secure the priority rights, the above being without prejudice to the rights of third parties acting in good faith over such assets, and the priority right shall 
remain in existence over property which has been carried away, notwithstanding that (the 
exercise of such right) may prejudice the rights of third parties, for a period of three years 
from the day on which they were carried away, if the landlord imposes an attachment over 
such property within thirty days from the date of asportation.  Nevertheless, if such property 
is sold to a purchaser acting in good faith in the public market or at a public auction or from 
a person dealing in such property, the landlord must return the proceeds to the purchaser.  
  
Article (1521 ) 
A debt arising out of a tenancy of agricultural land and property shall be recovered out of the 
proceeds of the property encu mbered by the priority right after the rights set out in the 
foregoing Articles, save in respect of those rights which are ineffective as against the right of 
the landlord in his capacity as a person in possession in good faith.  
  
Article (1522 ) 
(1) Monies  due to a hotelier by a guest for his board and accommodation, and monies 
expended on his account shall constitute a priority right over the belongings which the guest 
has brought to the hotel.  
(2) The priority right shall attach to the belongings notwiths tanding that they are not owned 
by the guest unless it is proved that the hotelier knew at the time they were brought into the hotel that they were subject to third party rights, but on condition that such property is not 
stolen or lost.  The hotelier may object to the removal of the belongings from the hotel so 
long as he has not been paid in full, and if the property is removed despite his objection or without his knowledge, the priority right shall remain in existence over such property 
without prejudice to rights over that property acquired by third parties acting in good faith.  
   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  350 
 Article (1523 ) 
The priority right of a hotelier shall rank equally with the priority right of a landlord, and if 
both rights exist simultaneously, the earlier of them in date shall be preferred unless the 
right is invalid as against the other.  
  
Article (1524 ) 
(1) The seller of moveable property shall have a priority right thereover for the price and appurtenances, and such priority right shall remain in existence so long as the  chattels retain 
their identity, but without prejudice to rights acquired by persons acting in good faith, and 
subject to the special provisions in the commercial laws.  
(2) Such priority right shall rank after the other priority rights referred to over mov eable 
property.  It shall apply as against a landlord or a hotelier if it is established that they were 
aware of the priority right of the seller at the time the chattels were brought on to the 
property leased or into the hotel.  
  
Article (1525 ) 
(1) Co -own ers of chattels shall, upon their dividing the same, have a priority right thereover 
by way of security for the rights of each of them in having recourse against the others by reason of the division and the recovery by them of their share.  
(2) The priority right of a sharing party shall have the same rank as that of the priority right 
of a seller, and the earlier in time shall prevail if there are competing ranks.  
 
 
Part  3: Priority rights over real property  
Article (1526 ) 
(1) The price and appurtenances of real property owing to a seller thereof shall have the 
status of a priority right over the property sold.  
(2) The priority right must be registered notwithstanding that the sale is registered, and it shall rank as from the date of its registration.   
Federal Law No. (5) of 1985 C oncerning the I ssuance of the C ivil Transactions Law of the  United Arab Emirates  351 
   
Article (1527 ) 
(1) Amounts due to contractors and building engineers who have undertaken to construct 
buildings or other installations, or to reconstruct, repair or maintain the same, shall have the status of a priority right over such structures, but to the extent to which it exceeds the value 
of the land at the time of sale, by reason of such works.  
(2) Such priority right must be registered and it shall rank as from the time of registration.  
  
Article (1528 ) 
(1) Co -owners of  land shall, upon their dividing the same, have a priority right thereover by 
way of security for the right of recourse that any of them has as against the others to recover 
his share to which he is entitled under the division.  
(2) A priority right arising out of the division must be registered, and it shall rank as from the 
date of registration.  
  
 