 
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  1 
 Federal Law No .  )19 ( of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United 
Arab Emirates.  
We, Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan,           President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Pursuant to the perusal of the provisional Constitution constitution; and  
− Federal Law no. 1 of 1972 concerning the Jurisdiction of Ministries and the Powers of 
the Ministers and the amending laws thereof; and  
− Federal Law no. 45 of 1992 concerning the Organization of the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs; and  
− Acting upon the proposal o f the Ministers of Defence and Foreign Affairs, the approval 
of the Cabinet and the ratification of the Federal Supreme Council,  
Have promulgated the following Law:  
 
Article (1) Definitions  
In the implementation of the provisions hereof, the following terms and phrases shall have 
the meanings assigned for each of them unless the context requires otherwise:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates State.  
Baseline  : The line from which the measurement of the territorial sea begins.  
Island  : A natural formation of land surrounded from all sides by water 
provided that it is not submerged by water in the event of high tides.  
Archipelago  : A group of two or more Islan ds constituting along with the water 
between or linking them a coherent unit from both geographical 
and economic sides.  
Low Tide Cusp  : A natural formation of land surrounded from all sides by water, and 
which cusp emerges from water in the event of low tides yet is  
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  2 
 submerged by water in the event of high tides.  
Gulf  : A sharp indentation which extension into the land is of adequate 
dept h with the width of its opening. The indentation engulfs water 
and is larger than the mere limited shoreline cove.  
Coast  : The Arabian Gulf Coast and the Gulf of Oman Coast.  
Nautical Mile   One thousand eight hundred and fifty two meters.  
  
Chapter One: The Internal Water  
Article (2)  
The internal water is the water opposing the land starting from the baseline used to measure 
the territorial sea of the State. Shall be deemed included in the internal water in particular:  
1 - The water of the Gu lfs along the Coast.  
2 - The water of any Low Tide Cusp located 12 Nautical Miles at most from the main 
land or any Island belonging to the State.  
3 - The water between the main land of the State and any Island belonging thereto and 
located 12 Nautical Mil es at most from the land.  
4 - Water between the Islands that belong to the State and separated from one another 
by 12 Nautical Miles at most.  
  
Article (3)  
The State shall determine the conditions of entry into the internal water pertaining thereto 
and shall be entitled to impose the implementation thereof on vessels wishing to enter.  
  
  
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  3 
  
Chapter Two: The Territorial Sea  
Article (4)  
In addition to its land and internal water, the sovereignty of the State shall extend to the 
territorial sea thereof as wel l as the airspace there above, the seabed and what is underneath. 
The State shall implement its sovereignty on the territorial sea in accordance with the 
provisions hereof and the regulations of the International Law.  
The territorial sea of the State is a belt of sea water that comes after the land area and internal 
water thereof, contiguous to the Coast and extending towards the sea for 12 Nautical Miles 
from the baseline.  
  
Article (5)  
1 - The foreign commercial vessels shall sail in the territorial sea o f the State within the scope 
of the right of innocent passage in accordance with the provisions of the said right accepted 
in the International Law.  
2 - The entry and passage of foreign warships, including submarines and other underwater 
vessels through th e territorial sea shall be subject to a prior authorization from the pertinent 
authorities in the State.  
3 - The submarines and other underwater vessels must sail on the surface and hoist their flag 
during their passage through the territorial sea of the S tate.  
4 - The foreign ships operating on or carrying nuclear power or any other radioactive 
hazardous or harmful substances or products shall notify the pertinent authorities of the State 
in advance of their entry and passage through the territorial sea.  
   
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  4 
  
 
Article (6)  
The territorial sea of the State shall be measured in accordance with the following provisions:  
1 - From the extreme edge of water recession from the main Coast or the beach, 
exposed to the sea. As for the locations where t he Coastline is sharply intermittent or 
contorted , the system of straight lines connecting appropriate points determined by pertinent 
authorities in the State shall be applied .  
2 - Straight lines which are no longer than 24 Nautical Miles that connect two water 
recession points at the entries of the Gulfs. Should the width of the Gulf opening exceed such 
distance , the straight line is drawn through the Gulf between any two water recession points 
on both sides of the Gulf that are the closest to  its entrances at a distance of 24 Nautical Miles 
. 
3 - With regards to an Archipelago, it must be measured through straight lines 
connecting the farthest external points to the farthest Islands within the Archipelago.  
4 - As for the port or harbour, it is  measured by lines drawn near the edge facing the 
sea, from the most protruding establishments of the harbour or port, and lines drawn between 
the edges of such establishments provided that such establishments are an integral part of the 
port or harbour's system.  
5 - Should the Low Tide Cusp be entirely or partly far by a maximum distance 
equivalent to the width of the territorial sea from the main land or one of the Islands, such 
cusp may be used as a baseline from which the width of the territorial sea is  measured.  
  
Article (7)   
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  5 
 Should the measurement of the territorial sea require , in application of the provisions hereof 
, leaving a part of the exclusive economic zone surrounded by the territorial sea from all sides 
, and which length in any direction do es not exceed 12 Nautical Miles , such part shall be 
considered a part of the territorial sea of the StateThe same provision shall be applied on any 
part of the exclusive economic zone which can be surrounded by one straight line which 
length does not exce ed 12 Nautical Miles.  
  
Article (8)  
The external edge of the territorial sea shall be a line where each point thereon is located on 
a distance from the closest points on the baseline equivalent to the width of the territorial sea.  
  
Article (9)  
The right t o fish in the territorial sea of the State shall be restricted to the citizens thereof.  
  
Article (10)  
The State shall exercise in the area neighbouring its territorial 2 sea control and dominance in 
view of accomplishing the following goals:  
1 - Prohibit the breach of the safety, customs, financial, health, or immigration 
legislations of the State, whether the breach occurs within the land, internal water or territorial 
sea of the State.  
2 - Punish whoever breaches the legislations provided for in the previous clause 
should the breach occur within the land, internal water or territorial sea of the State.  
  
Article (11)   
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  6 
 The width of the neighbouring region mentioned in the previous Article shall be 12 Nautical 
Miles and are measured from the outer boundaries of the territorial Sea of the State.  
  
Chapter Three: The Exclusive Economic Zone  
Article (12)  
The State shall have an exclusive economic zone neighbouring its territorial sea , extending 
towards the sea for a maximum distance of 200 Nautical Mi les and measured from the 
baseline from which the width of the territorial sea is measured , taking into account the 
provisions of Articles 23 / 2 and 24 hereof .  
  
Article (13)  
The State shall have within the exclusive economic zone sovereignty rights in view of 
exploring and exploiting natural, living or non - living resources of water on top of, on and 
under the seabed, as well as preserving and managing such resources in addition to other 
activities of the economic exploration and exploitation of the zo ne such as the production of 
energy from water, currents and wind.  
  
Article (14)  
The State shall have within the exclusive economic zone authority in the following areas:  
1 - Construct and use artificial Islands, structures and installations.  
2 - Maritime scientific research.  
3 - Protect and preserve the environment.  
  
Article (15)   
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  7 
 The right to fish in the exclusive economic zone shall be limited to the citizens of the State. 
Nonetheless, the pertinent authorities in the State may authorize non - citizens to fish in the 
said zone - in accordance with the conditions and restrictions the authorities impose - taking 
into account the measures relating to the preservation of living resources therein.  
  
Article (16)  
The State, i n view of exercising its sovereignty rights in exploring, exploiting, preserving and 
managing living resources in the exclusive economic zone, may take measures among which 
the inspection and impoundment of vessels and filing lawsuits against them, as need  may be 
in order to ensure the abidance by the laws and regulations of the State. The impounded 
vessels and their detained sailors shall not be released unless after bail or guarantee. In cases 
of impoundment of foreign vessels, the State of the flag shall  be notified of the procedure.  
  
Chapter Four: The Continental Shelf  
Article (17)  
The continental shelf of the State shall include the seabed and underneath it for the 
submarine areas extending beyond the territorial sea of the State and considered a natur al 
extension of its territory , and in all areas of the natural extension of the land territory of the 
State until the external boundary of the continental edge or for a distance of 200 Nautical 
Miles from the baselines from which the width of the territor ial sea is measured in case the 
external boundary of the continental edge does not extend to the said distance , and such 
while taking into consideration the provisions of Articles 23 / 2 and 24 hereof .  
  
Article (18)   
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  8 
 The State shall exercise sovereignty rights over its continental shelf in view of exploring and 
exploiting the natural resources that it contains. Such right shall be deemed exclusive rights 
to the State, unexercised by others unless with an explicit authorization there from, and such 
rights shall not depend on an actual or mandatory invasion or any explicit declaration there 
from.  
The natural resources mentioned in the previous paragraph shall mean the mineral and other 
non - living resources in and under the seabed, in addition to living cre atures and those 
considered eternal, i.e. the creatures that reached the maturity phase and are immoveable 
above or below the sea, or incapable of movement unless through continuous contact with 
the seabed or underneath it.  
  
Chapter Five: General Provisio ns 
Article (19)  
The determination of the maritime areas of the Islands belonging to the State shall be subject 
to the provisions provided for herein regarding the determination of the maritime areas of the 
main land.  
  
Article (20)  
1 - The State shall have in the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf the exclusive 
right to construct, operate and exploit:  
a - Artificial Islands.  
b - Establishments and installations used for scientific research, the preservation of the 
environment or other eco nomic goals.  
c - Constructions and installations enabling the State to exercise its rights.  
2 - The State shall have the exclusive authority on such artificial Islands, constructions and  
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  9 
 installations, including the authority related to customs, taxes and health laws and regulations 
as well as the safety and immigration laws and regulations.  
  
 
Article (21)  
The State may, whenever necessary, establish around the artificial Islands, constructions and 
installations safety zones in which it takes necessary pre cautions to ensure the safety of such 
artificial Islands, constructions and installations. The State shall determine the width of the 
safety zones, taking into account the internationally adopted criteria, and the safety zones 
shall be established in a way  that guarantees a reasonable connection between such zones, 
the nature, and the function of either artificial Islands, constructions or installations. The area 
around them shall not exceed 500 meters measured from every point at their outer edge, 
unless t he surpass is acceptable in accordance with the international criteria.  
  
Article (22)  
The pertinent authorities in the State shall issue regulations regarding the following matters:  
1 - The organization of the building , installation or use of structures , installations or 
artificial Islands in or above the continental shelf or the exclusive economic zone in view of 
exploring or exploiting its natural resources . It must be taken into account not to establish 
such structures or installations that might pro hibit from reaching the land or hinder the 
international navigation.  
2 - The establishment of safety zones mentioned in Article 21 herein.  
3 - The instructions to be abided by in order to protect the structures and installations.  
4 - The organization or pr ohibition of entry of vessels into safety zones.  
5 - Instructions list to be abided by in order to protect the living and non - living  
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  10 
 resources of the economic zone and the continental shelf.  
6 - The environmental affairs, scientific research and technolo gy transfer.  
7 - Any other similar matters.  
  
Article (23)  
1 - In cases where the territorial sea of the State is opposite or adjacent to the territorial sea of 
another State, the external boundaries of the territorial sea of the State shall be delimited by 
a middle line.  
2 - Should the State and any other opposite or adjacent State thereto not have an agreement 
organizing the maritime boundaries , the external boundaries of the adjacent region , the 
continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone shall be delimited by a middle line which 
every point is located on equal distances from the nearest points on the baselines .  
  
Article (24)  
The State shall publish official maps clearly clarifying the boundaries of the territorial sea, the 
adjacent zone, the exclusive economic zone and the continental shelf.  
  
Article (25)  
a - The implementation of the present Law shall not breach previously concluded contracts 
and privileges to explore and exploit living and non - living resources in mariti me areas , and 
the implementation of the provisions thereof shall not affect the constitutional and acquired 
rights of the Emirates to exploit living and non - living resources in its maritime areas , or the 
rights that it may acquire through agreements or  contracts that are concluded among the 
Emirates regarding said areas .  
b - The implementation of the provisions hereof shall not breach the implementation of the  
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  11 
 previously concluded agreements among the Emirates before the promulgation thereof. The 
Emira tes shall have the right to conclude agreements to organize the maritime boundaries 
among them.  
  
Article (26)  
Subject to the provisions and rules of the International Law, and without prejudice to any 
more sever punishment provided for in another law or t he breach of compensations:  
1 - Whoever breaches the provisions of Article 5 herein shall be sentenced to imprisonment 
which period shall be three years at least and seven year at most , and to a fine of 100 , 000 
Dirhams at least , and 2 , 000 , 000 Dirha ms at most , or to any of the said penalties .  
2 - Whoever breaches the provisions of Articles 13, 14, 18 and 20 herein shall be sentenced 
to imprisonment which period shall be three years at least and five years at most, and to a fine 
of 50,000 Dirhams at  least and 1,000,000 Dirhams at most , or to either penalty.  
3 - Whoever breaches the provisions of Articles 9 and 15 herein shall be sentenced to 
imprisonment which period shall be one year at least and three years at most, and to a fine of 
25, 000 Dirham s and not in excess of 1,000,000 Dirhams, or to either penalty.  
  
Article (27)  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall come into force as of the date of 
its promulgation  
 
 
 
 
        Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan   
 
Federal Law No. 19 of 1993 for defining the maritime areas of the United Arab Emirates.  12 
 President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
Promulgated by Us at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi  
On 2 Jumada al - Awwal 1414 H.  
Corresponding to 17 October 1993  