 
 
Cabinet Resolution No. (90) of 202 0 Concerning the Requirements and Controls  for Installing Fire Detectors in 
Residential Homes  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (90) of 2020  
Concerning the Requirements and Controls for Installing Fire Detectors in 
Residential Homes  
 
The Cabinet:  
− Upon reviewing  the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (23) of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defence;  
− Cabinet Resolution No. (24) of 2012 Concerning the Organisation of Civil Defence Services 
in the State, as amended;  
− Cabinet Resolution No. (61) of 2020 Concerning the Organisation of the Installation of Fire Detectors in Residential Homes;  and  
− Based on the proposal of the Minister of Interior and the approval of the Cabinet;  
Has resolved:  
 
Article (1) 
A. Without prejudice to the provisions of the aforementioned Cabinet Resolution No. (61) of 
2020, residential homeowners must abide by the following requirements and controls:  
1. Obtaining a certificate of completion for the residential home indicating the fulfilment of 
fire prevention and safety requirements for new residential homes or when modifying or 
adding to existing residential homes.  
2. Abiding by all requirements for installing fire detectors approved by the Directorate 
General Of Civil Defence.  
3. Installing fire detectors through establishments licensed by the Directorate General Of  
 
Cabinet Resolution No. (90) of 202 0 Concerning the Requirements and Controls  for Installing Fire Detectors in 
Residential Homes  2 
 Civil Defence and participating in the electronic system for protecting residential homes 
at the Directorate General Of Civil Defence with payment of the prescribed cos ts. 
4. Maintenance of fire detector systems through establishments licensed by the Directorate 
General Of Civil Defence.  
5. Updating the data and information of residential homeowners or tenants when 
ownership is transferred or when the tenant changes houses.  
6. Responding to calls received from the Civil Defence operations rooms and cooperating on 
reports received via the electronic system installed in the residential home.  
B. Tenants of residential homes shall abide by what the provisions of Clauses (2 and 6) of this  
Article.  
 
Article (2)  
Companies and institutions concerned with installing fire detectors in residential homes shall abide by the requirements and controls for installing the detectors and participating in the 
electronic system for protecting residential homes at the Directorate General of Civil Defence, 
which are contained in the Guide attached to this Resolution.  
 
Article (3)  
The Minister of Interior is authorised to update the Guide attached to this Resolution.  
 
Article (4)  
Any provision that violates o r contradicts the provisions of this Resolution shall be repealed.  
 
Article (5)  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force as of 03 January 2021.   
 
Cabinet Resolution No. (90) of 202 0 Concerning the Requirements and Controls  for Installing Fire Detectors in 
Residential Homes  3 
  
 
Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
Issued by Us:  
On: 16 Jumada I 1442 H  
Corresponding to: 31  December 2020 AD . 