Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 Concerning the Treatment of Non -Resident Foreigners Arrested at UAE Ports 
with Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances in their Possession  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (43) of 2024  
Concerning the Treatment of Non -Resident Foreigners Arrested at UAE Ports with 
Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances in their Possession  
 
The Cabinet,  
- Having reviewed:  
- The Constitution; and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. (1) of 1972  on the Competences of Mini stries and the Powers 
of Ministers, as amended; and  
- Federal Decr ee-Law No. (29) of 2021 on the Entry and Residence of Foreigners; and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. (30) of 2021  on Combating Narcotic Drugs  and Psychotropic 
Substances , as amended; and  
- Federal Decree -Law No. (38) of 2022 Promulgating the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
as amended; and  
- Based  on the proposal submitt ed by the Deputy Prime Minister  and  the Minister of 
Interior, and the Cabinet ’s approval thereof,  
Hereby resolves as follows:  
 
Article (1)  
Scope of Application  
1. For the purposes of applying the provisions of article (42 -bis) of Federal Decree -Law 
No. (30)  of 2021 , referred to hereinabove, the provisions of this Resolution shall apply 
to a ny forei gner w ho is not resident in the St ate and who is arrested, when entering 
the State from any lan d, sea or airport , with a ny narcotic or psychotropic substance  set 
out in the Schedule attached to this  Resolution ; provided that their weight does not 
exceed the weight shown next to each  in the Schedule , for the purpose of abuse or 
personal use in cond itions other than the legally permitted medical  ones.  Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 Concerning the Treatment of Non -Resident Foreigners Arrested at UAE Ports 
with Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances in their Possession  2 
 2. If the seized quantity of the narcotic drugs  or psychotropic substances set out  in the 
Schedule  attached to this Resolution exceeds the weight shown next to each  in the 
Schedule , or are established to be in possession for the benefit of  third parties , the 
legal procedures and the penalties set forth in Federal Decree -Law No. (30) of 2021, 
referred t o hereinabove, shall be applied to the accused .  
3. In case of multiple  narcotic drugs  and psychotropic substances  seized, as set forth in 
Clauses (1, 2 and 3) of the attached Schedule, the weight  of each one separately does 
not exceed the weights a ssigned thereto in the Schedule attached to this Resolution, 
the seized narcotic drugs  and psychotropic substances shall be treated as one type  for 
the purpose of determining the seized quantity; provided that the total weight of the 
quantity does not exce ed (100) one hundred grams.  
 
Article (2)  
Procedures for Dealing with Seizures  
When arresting a person who is addressed by the provisions of this  Reso lution, judicial 
officers shall  take any of the following actions :  
1. Draw  up a seizure report identifying the type and weight of the narcotic or 
psychotropic substance . 
2. Record  data of the person who is arrested in the Un ified Criminal System . 
3. Confiscate  the seized substances  and deliver  them to the competent authority  to be 
destroyed, pursuant to the provisions of Federal Law No. (30) of 2021 , referred to 
hereinabove; and  
4. Refer  the accused, the report,  and the seized substances to the Public Prosecution  for 
instituting legal proceedings in this regard.  
 
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 Concerning the Treatment of Non -Resident Foreigners Arrested at UAE Ports 
with Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances in their Possession  3 
 Article (3)  
Penalties  
1. A non -resident foreigner who is arrested , while  entering the State from any land, sea 
or airport , with a ny narcotic or psychotropic substance  set out in  Clauses (1, 2 and 3) 
of the Schedule attached to this Resolution; provided that their weight  does not 
exceed the weight shown next to each in the Schedule, for the purpose of abuse or 
personal use in conditions other tha n the  legally permitted  medical  ones, shall be 
subject to the following penalties:  
a. A fine of not less than (AED 5,000) five thousand dirhams and not more than (AED 
20,000) twenty thousand dirhams for a person arrested for the first time . 
Moreover, this person  shall be allowed to enter t he State only after paying the fine.  
b. A fine of not less than (AED 10,000) ten thousand dirhams and not more than 
(AED 30,000) thirty thousand dirhams for a person arrested for the second time . 
Moreover, this person  shall be deported from the State and tem porarily deprived 
of entry into the State for (3) three years, as of the day following the deportation  
date . He shall not be allowed to enter the State, except after paying the fine and 
execut e the deprivation penalty . 
c. A fine of  not less than (AED 50,000) fifty thousand dirhams and not more than  
(AED 100,000) one hundred thousand dirhams for a person arrested for the third 
time . Moreover, this person  shall be deported from the State and listed on the list 
of persons permanently b anned from entering the State.  
2. A non -resident foreigner who is arrested , while entering the State from any land, sea 
or airport , with a ny narcotic or psychotropic substance  set out in  Clause (4) of the 
Schedule attached to this Resolution; provided that their weight does not exceed the 
weight shown next to each in the Schedule, for the purpose of abuse or personal use 
shall be subject to a fine not less than (AED 50,000) fifty thousand dirhams a nd not Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 Concerning the Treatment of Non -Resident Foreigners Arrested at UAE Ports 
with Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances in their Possession  4 
 more than (AED 100,000)  one hundred thousand dirhams , and shall be deported from 
the State and listed on the list of persons permanently banned from entering the State.  
3. In case of multiple narcotic drugs  and psychotropic substance s seized , including any 
narcotic or psychotropic substance set out in Clause (4) of the Schedu le attached to 
this Resolution, the penalty prescribed in Clause (2) of this Article shall be applied.  
4. Without prejudice to the periods of deprivation of entering the State, as set out in this 
Resolution, a p erson who fails to pay the fine shall be listed on the list of persons 
permanently banned from entering the State  after departure , and the deprivation shall 
remain in place  until the payment of the fine .  
 
Article (4)  
Listing on the List of Persons Banned from Entering the State  
The competent Publ ic Prosecution shall order that a person against whom a decision has 
been issued to depriv e him of entering the State to be liste d on the list of persons  banned  
from entering the State in the Unif ied Criminal System upon departure, and on the 
administrative list of the Federal Authority for Identi ty, Citizenship, Customs  and Port 
Security,  as per the deprivation periods set forth in this  Resolution . 
 
Article (5)  
Applying for  Exemption from the Deprivation Decision    
In all cases, a person against whom a decision of deprivation of entering the  State may 
apply , in person or through his legal representative, for exemption from the decision  of 
deprivation of entering the State  before the competent authority after it is proved that he 
has paid the fine, in accordance with the rules and procedures applicable in  the legislation 
in force in the State.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 Concerning the Treatment of Non -Resident Foreigners Arrested at UAE Ports 
with Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances in their Possession  5 
 Article (6)  
Executive Resolutions  
Attorneys general, each within his respective area of competence , may issue the necessary  
resolutions and  instructions to i mplement the provisions of this Resolution.  
 
Article (7)  
Publication and Entry into Force     
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and  shall enter into force after 
(30) thirty days from the publication date thereof.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us  
Dated: 15th Shawwal 1445 A .H.  
Corresponding to: 24th April 2024 AD  Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 Concerning the Treatment of Non -Resident Foreigners Arrested at UAE Ports 
with Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances in their Possession  6 
 Schedule Attached to  Cabinet Resolution No. (43) of 2024  
Concerning the Treatment of  Non -Resident Foreigner s Arrested at UAE 
Ports with Narcotic Drugs  and Psychotropic Substances  in their 
Possession   
 
S.N Narcotic  Drug / Psychotropic Substance Type  Weigh/gm  
1 a. Cannabis , cannabis resin and cannabis  extracts 
and color, as set forth in Clause (29) of 
Schedul e (1), attached to Federal Decree -Law 
No. (30) of 2021, referred to hereinabove.  
b. Male or female cannabis with all  different 
names, such as Hashish, marijuana, violin, 
Banjo (cannabinoids ) or other names given to 
cannabis, as set forth in Clause (8 ) of Section II  
of Schedule ( 4), attached to Federal Decree -
Law No. (30) of 2021, referred to hereinabove.  
c. Tetrahydrocannabinol, as set forth in Clause 
(34) of Schedul e (5), attached to Federal 
Decree -Law No. (30) of 2021, referred to 
hereinabove.  
d. Dronabinol and Delta 9 -Tetrahydrocannabinol 
and its alternative  chemicals, as set forth in 
Clause (4) of Schedule (6), attached to Federal 
Decree -Law No. (30) of 2021, referred to 
hereinabove.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Less than (100) grams  
2 a. Catha edulis  of all the types and names, as set 
forth in Clause (9 ) of Section II  of Schedule (4),  
 Cabinet Resolution of 20 24 Concerning the Treatment of Non -Resident Foreigners Arrested at UAE Ports 
with Narcotic Drugs or Psychotropic Substances in their Possession  7 
 attached to Federal Decree -Law No. (30) of 
2021, referred to hereinabove.  
b. Catha edulis  leaves, as set forth in Clause (5 ) of 
Section I  of Schedule (4), attached to Federal 
Decree -Law No. (30) of 2021, referred to 
hereinabove.   
Less than (100) grams  
3 The narcotic drugs  and psychotropic s ubstances 
set forth in Schedules (3), (6), (7) and (8), attached 
to Federal Decree -Law No. (30) of 202 1, referred 
to hereinabove, excluding  the ones mentioned in 
Clause (1)  of this Schedule.    
Less than (50) grams or 
(60) tablets , whichever is 
lesser   
4 The narcotic drugs  and psychotropic substances 
set forth in Schedules ( 1), (2) and (4) of (Sections I 
& II) and Schedule (5), attached to Federal Decree -
Law No. (30) of 2021,  referred to hereinabove, 
excluding  the ones mentioned in Clause s (1) and 
(2) of this Schedule.     
Less than ( 20) grams  
 
  
 
  