Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023  
Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  
 
The Cabinet:  
– Upon reviewing the Constitution;  
– Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of Ministers, as 
amended;  
– No. (31) of 2021 Promulgating the Crimes and Penalties Law, as amended;  
– Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of 
Delinquency;  
– Federal Law N o. (38) of 2022 Promulgating the Criminal Procedure Law, as amended;  
– Based on the proposal of the Minister of Interior and the approval of the Cabinet;  
Has resolved as follows:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
The Definitions set forth in Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 shall be applied to this resolution. 
Otherwise, the following terms and expressions shall be accorded their designated meanings, 
unless the context otherwise requires:  
Reprimand  : Directing blame and reprimand to the Delinquent Juvenile or the Juvenile 
at Risk of Delinquency without contempt or disdain.  
Warning  : Giving a written warning to the Delinquent Juvenile or the Juvenile at Risk 
of Delinquency.  
Social Isolation  : Placing Delinquent Juvenile or at risk of delinquency in a place designated 
for that purpose in accordance with the provisions of this Resolution.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  2 
 Law  : Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and those at 
Risk of Delinquency . 
 
Article (2)  
Application of the Penal Procedures and Measures  
1. Penal Proc edures and Measures specified in accordance with the law and this resolution shall 
be applied to the Delinquent Juvenile who has reached the age of (12) years.  
2. The Public Prosecution, in coordination with the Ministry or the Concerned Authority, shall 
impl ement the Administrative Arrangements stipulated in the law and this resolution in a 
manner appropriate to the case of Delinquent Juvenile who has not reached the age of (12) 
twelve years.  
 
Article (3)  
General Criteria for Determining Measures  
The appropriate measure for Delinquent Juvenile or a Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency is 
determined in accordance with the following criteria:  
1. Age of Juvenile.  
2. Gender of the Juvenile.  
3. The gravity of the act.  
4. The nature of the act if it is organised or within on e or more gang group.  
5. Number of Juvenile delinquencies.  
6. The family, health, psychological and social status of the Juvenile.  
7. Considering the best interest of the Juvenile.  
8. Report of the Child Protection Specialist  
 
  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  3 
 Article (4)  
Implementation of the Judic ial Arrangements  
The Judicial Arrangements stipulated in the law shall be implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of this resolution.  
 
Article (5)  
Limitations of the Judicial Test Arrangement  
The Court may order a suspension of the pronouncement of t he conviction ruling for a term of 
no less than one year and no more than three (3) years in cases where it is permissible to sentence 
the Delinquent Juvenile to a penalty of imprisonment. The Juvenile shall be subject to Judicial Test 
Arrangement by placi ng him under one or more of the following limitations:  
1. Not leaving the house at the times specified by the ruling.  
2. Do not frequent the places specified by the ruling.  
3. Not to travel during the Judicial Test Term except with permission from the Court.  
4. Not to  change the place of residence unless a permission is granted by the Court.  
5. Carry out the duties determined by the ruling.  
6. Subject to rehabilitation programmes determined by the Child Protection Specialist.  
Considering that the Delinquent Juvenile does not  reach the age of eighteen (18) years during the 
term of implementation of the Judicial Test.  
 
Article (6)  
The Implementation of Judicial Test Arrangement  
1. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority shall supervise the implementation of the Judicial 
Test Arrangement in accordance with the Court ruling.  
2. Within the framework of implementing the Judicial Test Arrangement, the Ministry or the 
Concerned Authority may use Police Electronic Surveillance.  
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  4 
 Article (7)  
Report of Judicial Test Arrangement  
1. The Minist ry or the Concerned Authority shall prepare periodic reports on the Delinquent 
Juvenile when he is placed under Judicial Test in accordance with the following standards:  
a. Education empowerment.  
b. Family empowerment.  
c. Social empowerment.  
d. Skills development empo werment.  
e. Voluntary Work empowerment.  
2. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority shall submit periodic reports to the Public 
Prosecution concerning the Delinquent Juvenile subject to Judicial Test.  
3. The Public Prosecution shall take the following measures:  
a. If periodic reports prove that the Delinquent Juvenile has passed the Judicial Test Term, 
the matter shall be referred to the Competent Court to order its ruling deeming the case 
as if it has not existed.  
b. If the reports prove that the Delinquent Juvenile does not comply with the limitations of 
the Judicial Test, the case shall be submitted to the Court for retrial in accordance with the 
provisions of the law.  
 
Article (8)  
Cases of Electronic Surveillance  
1. The Delinquent Juvenile shall be subject to the Electroni c Surveillance after the expiry of his 
sentence or placed in specialised institutions and centres if he is convicted of one of the 
following crimes:  
a. Crimes affecting the external or internal security of the State, or those considered crimes 
affecting the security of the State.  
b. Crimes punishable by death or life or temporary imprisonment.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  5 
 c. Crimes of counterfeiting, forging or imitating money.  
d. Crimes of forging stamps or government financial documents or official papers.  
e. The crime of bribery, em bezzlement, seizure, or damage to public funds.  
f. Theft crime.  
g. The crime of arson.  
h. The crime of deliberate murder.  
i. The Crimes of terrorism.  
j. The crimes of narcotics and psychotropic substances  
k. The crimes considered to harm the State security under the Law on Combating Rumours 
and Electronic Crimes.  
l. Persons convicted of crimes of incitement to debauchery and prostitution.  
2. The Court may order that the Delinquent Juvenile be placed under Electronic Surveillance for 
other crimes.  
 
Article (9)  
Electronic Surveil lance Term  
1. The Electronic Surveillance Term prescribed under Clause (1) of article (8) of this resolution 
shall be a term equal to the term of punishment, provided that it does not exceed (3) three 
years, in accordance with the following controls:  
a. Electron ic Surveillance shall continue until its term expires, even if the Delinquent 
Juvenile has reached eighteen (18) years of age.  
b. The Electronic Surveillance Term for Delinquent Juvenile shall commence from the date 
of the end of his sentence or his placement  in specialised institutions or centres, and the 
date scheduled for its expiration shall not be extended if it is not possible to implement it.  
2. The Electronic Surveillance Term in cases in which the Court may rule shall be equal to the 
term specified in th e ruling, provided that it does not exceed (2) two years, in accordance with 
the following controls:  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  6 
 a. The Electronic Surveillance Term ends if the Delinquent Juvenile reaches the age of 
eighteen (18) years or when the Electronic Surveillance Term specified in the ruling 
expires, whichever comes first.  
b. The Electronic Surveillance Term for Delinquent Juvenile shall commence from the date 
of the end of his sentence or his placement in specialised institutions or centres, and the 
date scheduled for its expiratio n shall not be extended if it is not possible to implement it.  
c. The Court may reduce the Electronic Surveillance Term on its own initiative or upon the 
request of the Public Prosecution, the Delinquent Juvenile, or his Guardian, in accordance 
with periodic reports accompanied by the opinion of the Child Protection Specialist.  
 
Article (10)  
Procedures for implementing and following up on the Electronic Surveillance 
Arrangement  
Electronic Surveillance of the Delinquent Juvenile shall be carried out in accordance with the 
following procedures:  
1. Determine the Electronic Surveillance Means in accordance with the report of the Child 
Protection Specialist, taking the approval of the Ministry or the Concerned Authority to 
indicate the availability of the propo sed method or not.  
2. Enter the data of the Delinquent Juvenile subject to Electronic Surveillance into the Electronic 
Surveillance database of the Ministry or the Concerned Authority.  
3. The Public Prosecution shall oblige the Delinquent Juvenile or his Guardia n to review the 
Ministry or the Relevant Authority in order to implement the Electronic Surveillance 
Arrangement.  
4. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority shall coordinate with the Public Prosecution to 
submit periodic reports to it concerning the implement ation of the Electronic Surveillance 
Arrangement.  
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  7 
 Article (11)  
Criteria for Ruling of Community Service Arrangement  
Upon ruling of Community Service Arrangement, the following Criteria shall be observed:  
1. Select the place closest to the residence of the De linquent Juvenile.  
2. Select Community Service that matches the personal skills possessed by the Delinquent 
Juvenile.  
3. Comply with the age set by law for performing Community Service.  
4. The Ministry, the Competent Authority, or the Concerned Authority, as the ca se may be, shall 
submit a report on the health condition of the Delinquent Juvenile and its suitability for the 
proposed Community Service in coordination with the Health Authority.  
5. The gender of the Delinquent Juvenile is appropriate to the proposed Commu nity Service.  
 
Article (12)  
Places for Implementing Community Service Arrangement  
Community Service Arrangement for the Delinquent Juvenile shall be implemented in one of the 
following:  
1. Elderly Care Home.  
2. Holy Quran Recitation Institute.  
3. Primary Healthcare Centres.  
4. Municipalities and Environment Bodies.  
5. Sports Facilities.  
6. Red Crescent.  
7. Public Welfare and Charity Associations and Institutions  
8. Cooperative Societies.  
9. Civil Defence.  
10. Museums.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  8 
 11. Any other party in which the Court deems it possible to implement a Community Service 
Arrangement based on the report of the Child Protection Specialist and a statement of the 
opinion of the party in which it is proposed to implement Community Service.  
 
Article (13)  
Term and Procedures for Implementing Communit y Service  
When implementing the Community Service Arrangement, the following shall be considered:  
1. Its term shall not be less than (48) forty -eight hours of service and not more than (96) ninety -
six hours of service.  
2. The term of Community Service hours per day shall not exceed four (4) hours and shall not 
be less than one hour.  
3. Community Service shall be performed on weekends if the Delinquent Juvenile is related to 
school.  
4. The Delinquent Juvenile shall perform Community Service continuously until it is comp leted 
during the school and summer vacations.  
5. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority shall follow up on the implementation of the 
Community Service Arrangement with the entity implementing the management in 
accordance with the Court ruling.  
6. The Ministry s hall coordinate with the Public Prosecution concerning the procedures for 
implementing the Community Service Arrangement, and the entity in which the Community 
Service shall be implemented shall submit a detailed report on the extent of the Delinquent 
Juve nile commitment to performing the service, in accordance with the time term specified in 
the ruling issued by the Competent Court.  
7. If it is not possible to implement Community Service due to the implementing entity or the 
nature of the work carried out by this entity, the Public Prosecution shall be informed to 
present the matter to the Competent Court to decide what it deems appropriate.  
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  9 
 Article (14)  
Controls for Implementing Community Service Arrangement  
The entities in which the Community Service Arr angement shall be implemented shall comply as 
follows:  
1. Fail to carry out Community Service for Delinquent Juvenile in tasks other than those 
specified in the Court ruling.  
2. Fail to carry out Community Service in dangerous or arduous work or work that, by it s nature, 
causes harm to his health, safety or morals.  
3. Fail to carry out Community Service for the Delinquent Juvenile during the term from seven 
(7) pm until seven (7) am.  
4. Not assign the Delinquent Juvenile to additional work hours, or keep him after his scheduled 
appointments.  
5. Develop a specific programme to implement Community Service Arrangement in 
coordination with the Ministry or the Concerned Authority.  
 
Article (15)  
Arrangement of Prohibition of Practice of Certain Work  
1. The Court may rule to pro hibit the Delinquent Juvenile from practising a specific work or 
activity if it becomes clear to it that this work or activity has an impact on his delinquency.  
2. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority shall follow up on the implementation of the 
arrangemen t in accordance with the Court ruling, and may use Electronic Surveillance means 
to follow up on its implementation.  
3. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority shall submit periodic reports to the Public 
Prosecution to be presented to the Competent Court to indicate whether or not the 
arrangement will continue to be implemented.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  10 
 Article (16)  
Controls for Vocational Training Arrangement  
When ruling Vocational Training Arrangement, the following controls shall be observed:  
1. The training shall be appropriate to the age and gender of the Delinquent Juvenile.  
2. The training term shall not be less than one month and not more than three (3) years.  
3. Vocational Training shall be carried out in Governmental or Private Sector centres and 
specialised agencies that are accred ited by the Ministry or the Concerned Authority.  
 
Article (17)  
Procedures for Implementing the Vocational Training Arrangement  
The Vocational Training Arrangement shall be implemented in accordance with the following 
procedures:  
1. The Competent Court shall issue its ruling obligating the Delinquent Juvenile to perform 
Vocational Training, specifying the body for its implementation and term.  
2. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority shall follow up on the implementation of the 
Vocational Training Arrangem ent with the entity implementing the arrangement in 
accordance with the Court ruling.  
3. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority shall submit periodic reports to the Public 
Prosecution to be presented to the Competent Court in accordance with the term set in the 
ruling.  
 
Article (18)  
Partnership with the Private Sector  
The Ministry or the Concerned Authority may enter into partnerships with the Private Sector in 
implementing professional arrangement in coordination with the Ministry of Community 
Development, the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation, or the Relevant Local 
Authorities.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  11 
 Article (19)  
Arrangement of Placing at Health Facility  
The arrangement to place Delinquent Juvenile in a shelter, treatment centre, or health facility shall  
be implemented in coordination between the Public Prosecution and Health Authorities in the 
State.  
 
Article (20)  
Arrangement of Placing at the Juvenile Institution  
1. The placement arrangement at Juvenile Institution shall be implemented by the Ministry or 
the Relevant Authority, as the case may be.  
2. When the Delinquent Juvenile appears before the Court, the Court shall consider the ruling to 
place the Delinquent Juvenile at Juvenile Institution for rehabilitation and correction of his 
behaviour in the followi ng cases:  
a. Delinquent Juvenile who poses a danger to himself or others.  
b. Delinquent Juvenile who has committed very serious crimes.  
c. Delinquent Juvenile whose delinquency has occurred more than three (3) times.  
d. Delinquent Juvenile who commits several crimes a t the same time.  
e. Delinquent Juvenile who has repeatedly violated the arrangements imposed by the Court 
more than twice.  
3. Term of placement ends if the Delinquent Juvenile reaches eighteen (18) years of age.  
4. Juvenile Institution shall submit periodic reports every three (3) months to the Public 
Prosecution on the case of the Delinquent Juvenile.  
5. Based on the periodic reports submitted by the Juvenile Institution, the Court may suffice with 
the term of placement and release the Delinquent Juvenile, repl ace him with another 
measure, or continue placing him for the term it specifies.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  12 
 Article (21)  
Arrangement of Placing at the National Counselling Centre  
The arrangement of placing Delinquent Juvenile in the National Counselling Centre shall be 
implemented in accordance with the legislation in force in the State, and the Delinquent Juvenile 
shall be subject to the programmes and policies approved by the National Counselling Centre.  
The Public Prosecution shall be provided with periodic reports on his conditi on, to be presented 
to the Court to request his release or continued detention.  
 
Article (22)  
Controls for Placing Metal handcuffs on Delinquent Juveniles  
1. Metal handcuffs or any type of limitations that restrict the movement of Delinquent Juvenile 
at any stage of the investigation or trial shall not be allowed except in the following cases:  
2. If the Delinquent Juvenile resists the Police officers or tries to escape from them.  
3. If the Delinquent Juvenile commits an act that would harm himself or others.  
4. If the Delinquent Juvenile does not comply with the instructions and orders of the Police 
officers.  
5. As an exception to the provisions of Clause (1) of this Article, Delinquent Juvenile may be 
restrained with metal handcuffs in the following cases:  
a. When he is  transferred from one place to another and one of the cases mentioned in 
Clause (1) of this Article exists.  
b. If he or she tries to get rid of the Electronic Surveillance Device.  
c. If he commits acts that would destroy property or cause chaos.  
 
Article (23)  
Procedures and Controls for Taking the Statements of Delinquent Juvenile  
1. The Statement of Delinquent Juvenile in cases other than felonies is taken by the Police in 
accordance with the following procedures:  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  13 
 a. Testimony of the Delinquent Juvenile in spec ial places set for this purpose.  
b. If the crime committed by the Delinquent Juvenile constitutes a felony, the Public 
Prosecution shall be informed to give orders before taking any procedural action against 
him.  
c. The Guardian or a relative of the Delinquent J uvenile shall be informed within a term not 
exceeding four (4) hours from the time of learning of his identity.  
d. Upon testimony, the Delinquent Juvenile shall be referred directly to the Public 
Prosecution along with the report of the Child Protection Speci alist, and the Ministry or 
the Concerned Authority shall be informed of that.  
e. The Delinquent Juvenile shall be dealt with in accordance with the decisions of the Public 
Prosecution.  
2. Upon testimony of the Delinquent Juvenile, the Police shall comply with th e following 
controls:  
a. A Child Protection Specialist shall be present during the testimony Session in cases other 
than felonies, and he shall prepare a report on the Delinquent Juvenile, and express their 
opinion in writing on matters related to his persona lity. 
b. A translator shall give assistance if the Delinquent Juvenile is not fluent in the Arabic 
language.  
c. The term of testimony shall not exceed (2) two consecutive hours, after which the 
Delinquent Juvenile shall be given a break of not less than (15) fif teen minutes.  
d. Considering that the Victim and the Perpetrator are not present in the same place at the 
time of testimony of either of them.  
e. The Guardian may be allowed to attend the testimony Session upon the request of the 
Delinquent Juvenile in accordance with the requirements for testimony.  
f. The incident attributed to the Delinquent Juvenile shall be explained in a simple manner 
and in his own language.  
g. The Police shall wear civilian clothing while testimony from Delinquent Juvenile.  
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  14 
 Article (24 ) 
Places for testimony from Delinquent Juvenile  
1. The Police shall ensure that the places of the Delinquent Juvenile testimony are in accordance 
with the following specifications:  
a. The place of testimony shall be isolated from the place where the Statement is  recorded.  
b. The locations for testimony shall conform to the environmental and safety specifications 
approved in the State.  
c. To allocate health care places when needed.  
d. The locations for testimony shall be appropriate for cases of Delinquent Juvenile with 
disabilities (people of determination).  
e. A designated room shall be provided for the Delinquent Juvenile to change their clothes 
when needed.  
2. In places where Delinquent Juvenile testimony is taken, the Police shall take into account the 
following:  
a. An o ffice dedicated to the Public Prosecution based on coordination between them.  
b. Separate the families of the Perpetrator and the Victim of Delinquent Juvenile cases in 
waiting areas.  
c. Waiting Designated Places for Children  
 
Article (25)  
Social Risk to the Chi ld 
In addition to article (32) of the law, Social risk to the Child if it is feared that he shall be at risk 
Delinquency in any of the following cases:  
1. If he is under the care of a person who is not qualified for care.  
2. If the Guardian, Custodian, or Truste e has a criminal record.  
3. If the family is not qualified to care for him in accordance with the report of the Child 
Protection Specialist.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  15 
  
Article (26)  
Implementation of Administrative Arrangements  
The Police shall impose Administrative Arrangements on the Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency, 
after taking the following measures:  
1. Prepare a report of the Child Protection Specialist  
2. Conduct social risk assessment.  
3. Refer the report and assessment to the Competent Authority to take the arrangement  in 
accordance with the powers stated in article (27) of this resolution.  
4. Informing the Guardian.  
 
Article (27)  
Outcomes of Social Risk Assessment  
1. The outcomes of the social risk assessment shall be divided into (100) hundred degrees, and 
appropriate  measures shall be taken as follows:  
No.  Outcome of Social 
Risk Assessment  Administrative Arrangement  Competent 
Authority  
1 0 – 20 Handover to the Guardian.  Police Station Officer  
2 21 – 40 Commitment to certain duties.  Police Station Chief 
Officer  
3 41 – 80 Electronic Surveillance to 
prevent him from going to  Police Stations Chief 
Officer  
  Specific locations, or specify exit 
hours  Comprehensive  
4 81 – 100  Referral to the Juvenile 
Institution.  Director General of 
Police Operations  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  16 
 2. The two Administrative Arrangements mentioned in Clause (3 and 4) are limited to Juveniles 
over the age of fifteen (15).  
3. If it turns out that the Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency, in accordance with the report of the 
Child Protection Specialist,  requires being brought to a health facility or specialised centre, he 
shall be referred to the health facility or specialised centre by decision of the Director General 
of Police Operations, and periodic health status reports shall be prepared and present ed to 
the Public Prosecution to decide to release him upon his recovery.  
4. As an exception to the arrangement of handing over to the Guardian, when any of the 
Administrative Arrangements are imposed on a Juvenile subject to delinquency, he shall be 
prohibite d from travelling during the term specified for the arrangement.  
 
Article (28)  
Terms of Administrative Arrangements  
1. The term of Administrative Arrangements shall be as follows:  
Term  Arrangement  No.  
Not to exceed (20) twenty hours at a rate 
of (2) two hours per day  Commitment to certain duties.  1 
Not more than (2) two months  Electronic Surveillance to prevent him 
from going to specific places, or 
specifying exit hours.  2 
Not more than (2) two months  Referral to the Juvenile Institution.  3 
 
2. A report shall be prepared by a Child Protection Specialist if the Juvenile at Risk of 
Delinquency implements the two measures (2 and 3) and spends a term of no less than a 
month, and it is presented to the Public Prosecution to issue its decision to approve  the 
arrangement, amend it, or hand it over to the Guardian after taking the necessary pledge on 
him.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  17 
  
Article (29)  
Implementation of Commitment arrangement to certain duties  
The arrangement of imposing certain duties shall be implemented by obligating the Juvenile at 
Risk of Delinquency to perform one or more of the following duties:  
1. Attend lectures.  
2. Perform volunteer work hours.  
3. Do sports activities.  
4. Attend training courses.  
5. Perform additional classes.  
6. Undergo the required examinations.  
 
Article (30)  
Implementing the Electronic Surveillance Arrangement  
The Electronic Surveillance Arrangement shall be implemented by any of the following means:  
1. Smart bracelet.  
2. Electronic attendance application.  
3. Visual smart programmes approved by the Ministr y. 
4. Any other electronic means approved by the Ministry.  
 
Article (31)  
Appeal against Administrative Arrangements  
The Guardian may file appeal against Administrative Arrangement as of the date of knowledge of 
the management as follows:  
No. Administrative Arrangement  Term of Appeal  The Competent Authority 
to consider the Appeal 
1 Handover to the Guardian. (3) Three days Police Station Chief Officer Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  18 
 2 Commitment to certain duties. (3) Three days Chief Officer of the 
Comprehensive Police 
Stations  
3 Electronic Surveillance to prevent 
him from going to specific places, 
or specifying exit hours.  (3) Three days  Director General of Police 
Operations  
4 Referral to the Juvenile Institution.  (10) Ten da ys Police Chief Commander  
 
Article (32)  
Special Provisions for Administrative Arrangements  
1. The Administrative Arrangements and Procedures taken accordingly are included in its 
electronic system.  
2. The Ministry or the Concerned Authority, as the case may be, shall approve the necessary 
programmes and policies to protect Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency in order to serve the 
implementation of Administrative Arrangements.  
3. In all cases, the Administrative Arrangement may be modified based on the report of the Child 
Protection Specialist or a re -assessment of the social risk.  
 
Article (33)  
Controls for the Juvenile Institution Work  
The Juvenile Institution shall operate with the powers specified for it in the law in accordance 
with the controls stipulated i n this resolution.  
 
Article (34)  
Standards and Controls for Conditional Release  
1. The Juvenile Institution may, on its own initiative or upon the request of the Delinquent 
Juvenile or his Guardian, recommend the conditional release of the Delinquent Juvenile  who Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  19 
 has been sentenced to a freedom -restricting penalty in accordance with the following 
conditions:  
a. If he serves half the sentence.  
b. His behaviour shall be good during the term he spent at the Juvenile Institution.  
c. He shall not have been convicted of a crime whose original penalty is execution.  
d. He shall not commit any crime or be subject to one of the conditions of social danger 
stipulated in accordance with the provisions of the law and this resolution during the 
remaining term of the sen tence.  
2. The Delinquent Juvenile shall be under Conditional Release, considering the following 
controls:  
a. Prepare a report by a Child Protection Specialist recommending his conditional release.  
b. Undertaking of the Guardian or the Custodian to take good care of  the Delinquent 
Juvenile under Conditional Release.  
c. The Child Protection Specialist shall monitor the Juvenile behaviour in the area where he 
lives so that he can guide him and instruct him to take the necessary action if necessary.  
d. The Conditional Release  of the Delinquent Juvenile shall not lead to matters that would 
jeopardize his life or safety.  
3. The Delinquent Juvenile shall be released under condition, considering the following 
measures:  
a. By resolution of the Minister, a committee shall be formed that includes members 
representing the Ministry, the Competent Authority, the Juvenile Institution, the Concerned 
Authority, and the Public Prosecution to review cases of Conditional Release to recommend 
release or not. The resolution shall determine the m echanism of the Committee work and 
approve its recommendations.  
b. The decision to Conditional Release shall be issued by the Minister or his Authorised 
Representative.  
c. The Public Prosecutor shall be informed of the Conditional Release decision.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  20 
 4. The Committee  concerned with subsequent care, formed in accordance with the provisions 
of this resolution, shall follow up on the case of the Delinquent Juvenile under Conditional 
Release and recommend the continuation of the Conditional Release or his return to 
comple te the remainder of the sentence.  
 
Article (35)  
Conditions and Controls for Granting Visit Permission  
1. The Delinquent Juvenile shall be granted permission to visit his family if the following 
conditions are met:  
a. He shall have spent a term of no less than one month at Juvenile Institution if his sentence 
was based on a judicial or Administrative Arrangement.  
b. He shall have spent a term of no less than (4) four months at Juvenile Institution if the 
Delinquent Juvenile was sentenced to a freedom -restricti ng penalty.  
c. He shall have good conduct and behaviour during the term he spent in the Juvenile 
Institution in accordance with the report of the Child Protection Specialist.  
d. The Director of the Juvenile Institution shall recommend granting Visit Permission.  
e. He shall not have been convicted of a crime whose original penalty is execution.  
2. When granting Visit permission, the following controls shall be met:  
a. The release of the Delinquent Juvenile from the Juvenile Institution shall not lead to 
matters  that would jeopardize his life or safety.  
b. The Delinquent Juvenile shall be subject to Electronic Surveillance.  
c. The term of the visit shall not exceed (24) twenty -four hours.  
d. The Guardian or Custodian undertakes to take good care of the Delinquent Juvenile  
during the Visit term and to return him when the time specified for it expires.  
3. Visit Permission shall be granted in accordance with the following procedures:  
a. The request for Visit Permission shall be referred, together with the required reports and 
recom mendations, to the Public Prosecution.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  21 
 b. The Public Prosecution shall issue its decision to grant or deny Visit Permission.  
c. Place the Delinquent Juvenile under Electronic Surveillance during the Visit Permission 
term.  
d. Save the provisions stipulated under thi s Article, the Juvenile Institution may refer a 
request for a Visit Permission to the Public Prosecution in the following cases:  
e. Death of a relative up to the fourth degree.  
f. Illness of a parent, Guardian, or Custodian.  
g. Marriage occasions.  
 
Article (36)  
Conditions and Regulations for Reprimand Arrangement at Juvenile Institution  
1. The Reprimand Arrangement shall be implemented in the following cases:  
a. If he commits a minor violation for the first time in accordance with the policies applicable 
at the Juvenil e Institution.  
b. If he does not comply with the orders and instructions issued to him by the workers at the 
Juvenile Institution.  
2. When implementing the Reprimand Arrangement, the following controls shall be observed:  
a. The reprimand shall be in secret sessions.  
b. The reprimand shall be in the presence of Child Protection Specialist.  
c. Do not use hands or any tool or use offensive or indecent words.  
d. The reprimand shall be in understandable words and phrases in the language of the 
Juvenile.  
3. The authority to i mplement the Reprimand Arrangement shall belong to the Director of the 
Juvenile Institution or his Authorised Representative, and the implementation of the 
arrangement shall be recorded in the relevant electronic system.  
 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  22 
 Article (37)  
Conditions and Regula tions for Warning at Juvenile Institution  
1. The Warning Arrangement shall be implemented in the following cases:  
a. If he commits a minor violation for the second time or more in accordance with the 
policies applicable at the Juvenile Institution.  
b. If he commits  acts that would obstruct the daily work of the programmes prepared for him 
by the Juvenile Institution.  
2. When implementing the Warning Arrangement, the following controls shall be observed:  
a. Directing the Delinquent Juvenile or at risk of delinquency to imp rove his behaviour for 
the next stage.  
b. Warning Delinquent Juvenile or at risk of delinquency of tightening measures in the event 
he repeats the violations.  
3. The authority to implement the Warning Arrangement shall belong to the Director of the 
Juvenile Institution or his Authorised Representative, and the implementation of the 
arrangement shall be recorded in the relevant electronic system.  
 
Article (38)  
Conditions and Regulations for Denial from Certain Benefits at Juvenile 
Institution  
1. The Deni al Arrangement of certain benefits for Delinquent Juvenile or a Juvenile at Risk of 
Delinquency shall mean the following:  
a. Denial of making calls.  
b. Denial from some recreational activities.  
c. Denial from sporting activities.  
2. Some benefits shall be denied in the following cases:  
a. If he commits acts of verbal or physical altercation with others at the Juvenile Institution.  
b. If he disobeys the orders.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  23 
 c. If he refuses to attend his educational programmes.  
3. When implementing the Denial Arrangement, the following controls shall be observed:  
a. The term of Denial shall not exceed (7) seven days.  
b. He shall not be deprived of family contact.  
c. Prepare a report by a Child Protection Specialist explaining the reasons for the Juvenile 
committing the cases mentioned i n Clause (2) of this Article.  
4. The authority to implement the Denial Arrangement of certain benefits shall belong to the 
Director of the Juvenile Institution or his Authorised Representative, and the implementation 
of the arrangement shall be recorded in th e relevant electronic system.  
 
Article (39)  
Conditions and Regulations for Denial from Visit Permission at Juvenile 
Institution  
1. The Denial Arrangement of Visit Permission shall mean not proceeding with the procedures 
for granting the Delinquent Juvenile an d the Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency permission to 
visit his family in accordance with the provisions of this resolution.  
2. Visit Permission shall be denied in the following cases:  
a. If his behaviour during his stay at the Juvenile Institution does not call f or confidence, he 
shall evaluate himself in accordance with the reports of the Child Protection Specialist.  
b. If the Reprimand or Warning Arrangement was previously implemented against him more 
than twice.  
c. If the Denial Arrangement of some benefits against h im has not been implemented for 
more than (2) two months.  
3. When implementing the Denial Arrangement of the Visit Permission, the following controls 
shall be observed:  
a. The term of Denial shall not exceed (3) three months.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  24 
 b. The psychological, emotional and hea lth aspects resulting from being denied a visit permit 
shall be considered.  
4. The authority to implement the arrangement of Denial Arrangement of Visit Permission shall 
belong to the Director of the Juvenile Institution or his Authorised Representative, and the 
implementation of the arrangement shall be recorded in the relevant electronic system.  
 
Article (40)  
Conditions and Regulations for Social Isolation at Juvenile Institution  
1. Social Isolation places shall meet the following specifications:  
a. It shall contain the environmental and safety specifications approved in the State.  
b. It shall be adequately lit.  
c. It shall not be tight and affect his psychological or health condition.  
d. Isolation places shall be free of any materials or tools  that would help him harm himself.  
e. It shall contain the necessary materials to correct his behaviour, support, develop skills, 
educate , and teach.  
2. The Social Isolation Arrangement shall be implemented in the following cases:  
a. If he commits any act that con stitutes a crime while he is at Juvenile Institution.  
b. If he commits disgraceful or indecent words or actions.  
c. If he damages the property of the Juvenile Institution.  
d. If he harms himself or others at the Juvenile Institution.  
e. If he resists or assaults the w orkers at the Juvenile Institution.  
3. When implementing the Social Isolation Arrangement, the following controls shall be 
observed:  
a. Workers at the Juvenile Institution stop by periodically during the day to check on him.  
b. The term of Social Isolation shall no t exceed (7) seven days.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  25 
 4. The authority to implement the Social Isolation Arrangement shall belong to the Director of 
the Juvenile Institution or his Authorised Representative, and the implementation of the 
arrangement shall be recorded in the relevant elec tronic system.  
Article (41)  
Reports of the Child Protection Specialist  
For the purposes of implementing the provisions of the law and this resolution, the minimum 
standards contained in the Child Protection Specialist report are as follows:  
1. Personal Data  
2. Guardian data.  
3. Summary of the incident.  
4. Family social data.  
5. Economic status of the family.  
6. Educational status of the family.  
7. Family health status.  
8. Family social risk assessment.  
9. Diagnosing the legal status of the Delinquent Juvenile or the Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency.  
10. Opinion.  
11. Recommendations.  
 
Article (42)  
Follow -Up Care of the Juveniles  
1. By resolution of the Minister, Juvenile Aftercare Committee shall be formed, including 
representatives of the following entities:  
a. Ministry of Interior.  
b. Ministry of Defence.  
c. Ministry of Justice.  
d. Ministry of Community Development.  Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  26 
 e. Ministry of Education.  
f. Ministry of Health and Prevention.  
g. Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratisation.  
h. Public Prosecution.  
i. Any Competent Authority or other Concerned Party determined by the Minister.  
2. The Juvenile Aftercare Committee shall establish the necessary programmes and policies for 
the Juvenile Aftercare and their integration into society in accordance with the following axes:  
a. Focus of legal support and legal follow -up. 
b. Focus of social support for Juveniles and their families.  
c. Focus of Psychological support.  
d. Focus of financial and economic support.  
e. Focus of educational and school support.  
3. All Delinquent Juveniles or Those at Risk of Delinquency shall be subject  to the programmes 
and policies decided by the Committee within a term not exceeding one year. Delinquent 
Juveniles or Those at Risk of Delinquency may not travel during their subsequent care term 
except with permission from the Ministry or the Concerned A uthority.  
4. The Juvenile Aftercare Committee shall determine the violations and administrative penalties 
related to violating aftercare programmes and policies. The violations and administrative 
penalties shall be issued by a resolution of the Cabinet based on the Minister proposal.  
 
Article (43)  
Working Models  
The following forms shall be approved by a decision of the Minister or his Authorised 
Representative:  
1. Implementation of the Report of Judicial Test Arrangement  
2. Model of Social Risk Assessment  
 Cabinet Resolution No. (133) of 2023,  Concerning the Executive Regulations of Federal Law No. (6) of 2022  
Concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Those at Risk of Delinquency  27 
 Artic le (44)  
Publication and Entry into Force of the Resolution  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force as of the day 
following its publication date.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
Issued by Us:  
Issued in Dubai on December 15, 2023  
Corresponding to: Jumada al -Akhir 02, 1445 A.H. 