 
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  1 
 Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 concerning Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at 
Risk of Delinquency  
 
I, Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,               President of the United Arab Emirates , 
− Upon reviewing the Constitution , 
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972  concerning the Competences of Ministries and the Powers 
of Ministers and the amendments thereto , 
− Federal Law No. (9) of 1976  concerning Delinquent Juveniles and Homeless , 
− Federal Law No. (35) of 1992  Promulgating th e Criminal Procedures Law, and any 
amendments thereto , 
− Federal Law No. (43) of 1992  concerning the Penal Facilities Organisation , 
− Federal Law No. (28) of 2005  concerning Personal Status, as amended , 
− Federal Law No. (7) of 2014  concerning Com bating Terrorism Offences , 
− Federal Law No. (3) of 2016  concerning the Child Rights Law (Wadeema) , 
− Federal Law No. (5) of 2017  concerning the Use of Telecommunication in Criminal 
Proceedings , 
− Federal Law No. (28) of 2019 concerning the Establishment of the National Counselling 
Centre , 
− Federal Law by Decree No. (31) of 2021 Promulgating the offences and Punishments 
Law , 
− Federal Law by Decree No. (33) of 2021 Regulating Labour Relations , 
− Federal Law by Decree No. (34) of 2021 On Combating Rumours and Cybercrimes , 
− Upon the proposal of the Minister of Finance as approved by the Cabinet and the 
Federal National Council, and as ratified by the Federal Supreme Council , 
Hereby issue the following Law:  
  
 
   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  2 
 Article (1) 
Definitions  
In application of the provisions of this Law, the following words and phrases shall have the 
meanings assigned to each of them, unless the context otherwise requires:  
State  
 : United Arab Emirates . 
Min istry  
 : Ministry of Interior . 
Minister of  
 : Minister of the Interior . 
Competent Authority  
 : The Federal Authority concerned with Child Affairs . 
The Concerned Entity  
 : The Local Authority concerned with Children Affairs . 
Child  
 : Every person born alive who has not completed Eighteen 
Years old . 
Juvenile Delinquent  
 : A Child who commits offence punishable by the offences 
and Penalties Law or any other law . 
Juvenile at Risk of 
Delinquency  
 : The Child whose moral, sexual, physical, psychological, 
mental, intellectual or educational integrity may be 
exposed to risk that may lead to his being considered a 
Juvenile Delinquent . 
Juvenile Association  
 : A place which is suitable for care of Juvenile Delinquent 
and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency . 
Child Protection Specialist  
 : The person licensed and assigned by the Competent 
Authority or the Concerned Entity – as the case may be – 
to maintain the rights of the Child and protect the Child 
within the li mits of their competencies, as stated in Federal 
Law No. (3) of 2016  concerning the Child Rights Law  
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  3 
 (Wadeema) . 
Guardian  
 : The person legally responsible for the Child or he is 
Guardian of the Child . 
 
Article (2) 
Scope of Application  
The provisions stipulated in this law shall apply to Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk 
of Delinquency.  
  
Article (3) 
Age Calculation  
Pursuant to the provisions of this law, the Gregorian Calendar shall be taken into account 
when the Age is calculated.  
  
Article (4) 
Proof of the Age  
The age shall be proved under official document. If it is unavailable, the Investigation 
Authority or the Court shall appoint a specialist physician to estimate the age using his 
techniques.  
  
Article (5) 
Criminal Liability  
Delinquent Juvenile Who has not reached the age of (12) at the time of committing the 
legally punishable act shall not be criminally liable.  
The Public Prosecution may order the appropriate administrative measures stipulated in this 
law to be taken in the case of a Delinquent Juvenile who has not reached the age prescribed 
under this article, if it deems it necessary.  
   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  4 
 Article (6) 
Delinquent Juvenile who has not yet reached the Age of Sixteen  
If the Delinquent Juvenile who has reached the age of (12) Twelve years and has not 
reached the age of (16) sixteen years has committed offence punishable by the Law of 
offences and Penalties or any other law, the Court shall rule to take whatever judicial 
measures it deems necessary provided for in this law.  
  
Article (7) 
Delinquent Juvenile who has reached the Age of Sixteen  
If the Delinquent Juvenile who has reached the age of (16) sixteen years has committed 
offence punishable by the Law of offences and Penalties or any other law, the Court shall 
rule to take whatever j udicial measures it deems necessary provided for in this law instead 
of the prescribed penalties.  
  
Article (8) 
Judgment Rules against Juvenile Delinquent  
In the cases in which the Juvenile Delinquent may be sentenced to a criminal penalty, the 
following rul es shall be applied against him:  
1. The Juvenile Delinquent shall not be sentenced to death or imprisonment . 
2. The death penalty or imprisonment for the offence committed by the Delinquent 
Juvenile shall be replaced by imprisonment for a period not e xceeding (10) ten years . 
3. The period of imprisonment imposed on a Juvenile Delinquent may not exceed half of 
the maximum limit prescribed for the origin al penalty. In all cases, the imprisonment 
that may be imposed on the Delinquent Juvenile in accordance with this Article shall be 
executed in the Juvenile Association. If the Delinquent Juvenile has reached the age of 
(18) eighteen years and he still has a remaining period, the Delinquent Juvenile shall be 
transferred to the Penal Institution or Association to complete the rest of the 
punishment.  
   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  5 
 Article (9) 
Penal Principles for Dealing with Juvenile Delinquents  
1. The provisions of recidivism shall not  apply to the Delinquent Juvenile.  
2. The Juvenile Delinquent shall not be subject to consequential or complementary 
penalties, except for confiscation and removal from employment, unless the Court 
deems it beneficial to issue a judgment thereof.  
3. The Juvenile Delinquent shall not be subject to financial penalties.  
  
Article (10)  
Legal Guarantees for Juvenile Trial  
The following legal guarantees shall apply to the Delinquent Juvenile upon Trial:  
1. If a Juvenile Delinquent commits more than one offence before a judgment is passed 
against him in one of the offences, the Juvenile Delinquent shall be tried for it as a single 
offence, provided that the penalty prescribed for the most severe offence is pa ssed.  
2. If, after the judgment against the Delinquent Juvenile that he committed another offence 
prior to the issuance of the judgment, the Court may find it sufficient with the judicial 
measures or the penalties imposed against him.  
  
Article (11)  
Judici al Measures  
The Judicial Measures that the Court may impose on the Juvenile Delinquent in the event of 
conviction of offence are:  
1. Judicial Probationary Period.  
2. Electronic Surveillance.  
3. Community Service.  
4. Prohibition of practice of a certain work.  
5. Mandatory vocational training.  
6. Placing at the Health Facility.  
7. Placing at the Juvenile Association.   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  6 
 8. Placing at the National Counselling Centre.  
In all cases, the Juvenile Delinquent may be sent enced to more than one of the measures 
referred to in the aforementioned, whenever his interest so requires.  
  
Article (12)  
Judicial Probationary Period  
In the cases in which the Delinquent Juvenile may be sentenced to imprisonment, the Court 
may order the suspension of pronouncement of the conviction for a period of not less than 
one year and not exceeding three years, provided that the Delinquent Juvenil e has not 
reached the age of eighteen during the period of Judicial Probationary Period, while placing 
him under supervision and the restrictions required by the Judicial Probationary Period.  
If the Juvenile successfully passes the Judicial probationary pe riod, the case shall be deemed 
as if it has not existed. Otherwise, the Juvenile shall be retried in accordance with the 
provisions of this Law.  
The Executive Regulations of this law shall determine the procedures for implementing the 
Judicial Probationary  Period measure.  
  
Article (13)  
Electronic Surveillance  
The Court may place the Delinquent Juvenile under Electronic Surveillance to prevent him 
from visiting the places where it is proven that his visit has an effect on his Delinquency.  
The Executive Regula tions of this law shall determine the cases in which Surveillance is 
obligatory, and the duration and procedures for implementing and following up this 
measure.  
  
Article (14)  
Community Service  
The Court may decide to assign a Delinquent Juvenile who has rea ched the age of sixteen to 
perform community service within a specified period of time and for a number of daily  
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  7 
 hours. If the Juvenile Delinquent does not undertake them or fails to complete them, the 
Court may decide what it deems appropriate from the me asures mentioned in this law.  
The Executive Regulations of this law shall determine the conditions of community service, 
its performance locations, its duration, and the procedures for implementing this measure.  
 
Article (15)  
Vocational Training  
The obligat ion for vocational training is that the Court entrusts the Delinquent Juvenile to 
Government Agencies, Associations or the Private Sector for a period not exceeding (3) three 
years. If the Delinquent Juvenile does not undertake vocational training or fails  to complete 
it, the Court may decide what it deems appropriate from the measures mentioned in this 
law.  
The Executive Regulations of this law shall determine the procedures for implementing of 
this measure.  
  
Article (16)  
Placing at a Health Facility  
If the  Court finds that the Juvenile Delinquency is due to a mental or psychological illness, it 
may order that he be placed in a therapeutic shelter or health facility designated for this 
purpose until he is cured.  
The Court then shall decide the release the De linquent Juvenile based on periodic reports of 
the doctors supervising his treatment.  
  
Article (17)  
Placing at the Juvenile Association  
The Court may order the placement of the Delinquent Juvenile in a Juvenile Association for 
rehabilitation and correction  of behaviour.  
The Court shall decide the release of the Delinquent Juvenile or replace the measure with 
another based on the periodic reports submitted by the Juvenile Association.   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  8 
 The Delinquent Juvenile may not remain in the Juvenile Association when he reaches the 
age of (18) eighteen years.  
  
Article (18)  
Deposit at the National Counselling Centre  
The Court may order that the Delinquent Juvenile who is convicted of terrorist danger  be 
deposited in the National Counselling Centre.  
The Court shall decide to release or continue the placement of the Juvenile Delinquent 
based on the periodic reports submitted by the National Counselling Centre to the Court.  
  
Article (19)  
Stay of Execution  
When a judgment is passed for one or more of the measures stipulated in this law, it may 
order the stay of execution of the judgment.  
  
Article (20) 
Penal Reconciliation  
Penal Reconciliation shall be applied to violations and misdemeanours for which the 
pen alty of imprisonment does not exceed one year, if the Juvenile Delinquent commits the 
violations and misdemeanours for the first time.  
  
Article (21)  
Delinquent Juvenile Trial  
The Delinquent Juvenile Trial shall take place in private and in the presence of C hild 
Protection Specialist. Only his Guardian, witnesses, lawyers, and those authorised by the 
Court may attend.  
A Juvenile Delinquent in felony offences shall not be tried except in the presence of a lawyer. 
If the Guardian does not assign a lawyer for th e Juvenile, the Court shall assign him a lawyer  
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  9 
 who shall be paid by the State for his efforts as set forth in the Code of Criminal Procedure.  
The Court may carry out Trial procedures using remote communication technology in 
criminal proceedings.  
The Court  may exempt the Delinquent Juvenile from attending the Trial in person and 
decide to hear the witnesses in his absence if it deems that his interest requires that.  
However, a conviction may not be passed except after the Delinquent Juvenile has been 
made a ware of the procedures that took place in his absence, and the verdict shall be 
pronounced in an open session.  
  
Article (22)  
Investigation Controls  
When investigating a Delinquent Juvenile, the following rules shall be observed:  
1. The Police shall notify the Guardian or one of the relatives of the Delinquent Juvenile as 
soon as possible if the information relating to him is fit for reporting. The Juvenile 
Delinquent may request the presence of the Guardian.  
2. Iron handcuffs or an y kind of handcuffs that restrict the movement of a Delinquent 
Juvenile may not be placed except in cases specified by the Executive Regulations of this 
law.  
3. If the act committed by the Juvenile Delinquent constitutes a felony, the Police shall 
inform  the Public Prosecution to take its actions before taking any procedural action 
against him.  
4. The Police shall take the statement of the Delinquent Juvenile in cases other than 
felonies, in the presence of a Child Protection Specialist, who shall prepa re a report on 
the Delinquent Juvenile and express his opinion in writing on issues related to his 
personality. The Executive Regulations shall determine the controls and places for taking 
the Delinquent Juvenile statement.  
5. The Juvenile Delinquent sha ll be given the opportunity to express his views freely and 
his views shall be given due consideration in accordance with his age and maturity.  
6. After completing the Delinquent Juvenile statement, the Police shall refer him to the  
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  10 
 Public Prosecution, a nd shall attach the report of the Child Protection Specialist, 
including a statement of the Delinquent social and psychological condition, the 
environment in which he grew up, his opinion on the factors that prompted him to 
commit the punishable act or exp osed him to Delinquency, and the proposed measures 
to reform it.  
7. The Public Prosecution shall inform the Juvenile Delinquent of the charges against him 
and deal with the accusation and the case.  
  
Article (23)  
Remand in Custody  
A Juvenile Delinquent may not be remanded in custody. However, if the circumstances of 
the case require taking a precautionary measure against him, the Public Prosecution may 
order that he be placed in a Juvenile Association, provided that the placement pe riod does 
not exceed one week, unless the Court agrees to extend it for a maximum period of (30) 
thirty days.  
Instead of placing the Delinquent Juvenile, it may be ordered that the Delinquent Juvenile be 
handed over to his Guardian, provided that the Delin quent Juvenile is committed to present 
at every request.  
  
Article (24)  
Trial Controls  
When prosecuting a Delinquent Juvenile, the following rules shall be observed:  
1. If the case of the Delinquent Juvenile is related to Defendants who have completed (18 ) 
eighteen years of age at the time of committing the offence, the Trial procedures for the 
Delinquent Juvenile shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this law.  
2. The jurisdiction of the Court shall be determined by the place where th e legally 
punishable act took place. The Court may refer the criminal case to the Court within 
whose jurisdiction the Delinquent Juvenile or his family resides in order to achieve his 
best interest. The Court to which he is referred shall accept the case.   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  11 
 3. The Juvenile Delinquent, the Guardian, his lawyer, or one of the parties to the case may 
request the Court to discuss with the Child Protection Specialist concerning his report 
submitted to the Court.  
4. The Court shall, after reviewing the  report submitted by the Child Protection Specialist, 
rule on the case and be guided by what is stated therein.  
5. If the conditioning of the act committed by the Delinquent Juvenile constitutes a felony, 
two Child Protection Specialists shall be present . 
 
Article (25)  
Notice to the Delinquent Juvenile  
Every action required by law to be informed to the Juvenile shall be notified to his Guardian, 
and he may proceed in the interests of the Delinquent Juvenile with the appeal methods 
prescribed.  
  
Article (26)  
Legal Protection of the Juvenile  
1. The name and photos of the Delinquent Juvenile may not be published or to publishing 
the facts of the investigation or Trial or its summary or summary of the judgment in any 
means of publication, media or social commu nication, in any way whatsoever, unless 
the Court or the Public Prosecution allows it.  
2. The Court shall take all necessary measures to prevent infringement by any means that 
the Delinquent Juvenile may be exposed to in his private life, and confiscate pamphlets, 
books, recordings, photos, films, correspondence, or any documents, papers, tools, or 
devices that it deems harmful to his reputation, honour, or the reputation and honour of 
his family. And prevent its circulation through social media or any ot her means.  
3. The Court shall consider, in an urgent manner, taking the procedures stipulated in this 
Article, according to a request submitted by the Delinquent Juvenile, the Guardian, the 
Police, or the Public Prosecution.  
   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  12 
 Article (27)  
Suspension of the Guardianship over the Delinquent Juvenile  
Subject to the provisions of the laws in force with regard to Guardianship over oneself, the 
Court may suspend all Guardianship rights if the Guardian is the cause of his Delinquency.  
If the Court shall decide to suspend the Guardianship, it refers the matter to the Court 
concerned with personal status affairs to appoint a Guardian over the Delinquent Juvenile in 
accordance with the legislation in force in the State.  
  
Article (28)  
Appeal of Judgments  
Judgments issued against Juveniles may be appealed. The appeal shall be submitted with a 
report to the Competent Court within thirty (30) days from the date of issuance of the 
judgment if it is in presence, or from the date of informing the ju dgment if it is in absentia. 
The Court shall decide on it as soon as possible.  
  
Article (29)  
Enforcement of judgments  
The judgment to place the Delinquent Juvenile at a Juvenile Association or the National 
Counselling Centre shall be enforceable even if it is challenged by appeal.  
  
Article (30)  
Modification of Judicial Measures  
The Court may, on its own, after reviewing the reports submitted to the Court, or at the 
request of the Delinquent Juvenile or his Guardian, rule to amend, suspend or terminate the 
judgment measures. In all cases, the Court judgment shall not be subject to appeal. A new 
application shall not be accepted before the lapse of (3) three months from the issuance of 
the judgment.  
  
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  13 
 Article (31) 
Dealing with Juveniles according to Age  
1. If an accused person is sentenced, then it is revealed by official papers that he has 
completed (18) eighteen years of age, the Public Prosecution shall refer the matter to the 
Court that issued the judgment to cancel it and rule on the case in accordance with the 
Procedures prescribed for Juvenile Delinquent Trails . 
2. If an accused person is sentenced to one of the measures prescribed for Juveniles, then it 
is revealed by official papers that he has completed (18) eighteen years of age, the Public 
Prosecution shall refer the matter to the Court that issued the judgment to cancel it and 
rule on the case in accordance with the provisions prescribed in the Code of Criminal 
Procedures.  
  
Article (32)  
Social Risk to the Child  
Social risk to the Child and it  is feared that he will be exposed to Delinquency in any of the 
following cases:  
1. If he is found practicing what is not considered a legitimate means of subsistence.  
2. If he sleeps overnight in other than his home or in places not intended for resi dence or 
overnight.  
3. If he visits places that people of his age are prohibited, or if he mixes with suspects or 
criminals.  
4. If he is repeatedly absent from home or escaping from school.  
5. If he is of bad behaviour or outside the authority of his Guardian.  
6. If he performs acts related to narcotics, psychotropic substances, alcohol, violence, or 
acts contrary to morals or public morals.  
7. If he is found carrying any weapon or tool that  endangers the safety and lives of others.  
8. If there are indications that he may harm himself in any way.  
9. If he is subjected to abuse that would lead him to deviant behaviour.  
10. If the Guardian refuses to receive it or abandons it.   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  14 
 11. Any cases specified by the Executive Regulation of this Law.  
  
Article (33)  
Administrative Measures  
The Police may impose the following administrative measures on a Juvenile at Risk of 
Delinquency:  
1. Delivery to the Guardian.  
2. Commitment to certain d uties.  
3. Electronic Surveillance to prevent him from going to specific places, or specifying exit 
hours.  
4. Referral to health or specialised facilities.  
5. Referral to the Juvenile Association.  
6. The Executive Regulations of this law shall specify the conditions and controls for these 
administrative measures, grievance procedures, and the cases in which the 
administrative measure may be amended.  
  
Article (34)  
Implementation of Administrative Measure s 
The Police shall notify the Guardian in writing if he finds the Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency 
in any of the cases stipulated in article (32) of this law.  
If the Juvenile at risk of Delinquency is referred to the Juvenile Association, the Guardian 
may a ppeal against this procedure within (10) ten days from the date of his knowledge.  
If the Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency has reached the age of (18) eighteen years and is still in 
the Juvenile Association, the Association shall hand him over to the Guardia n. 
The Executive Regulation of this Law shall determine the procedures necessary for its 
submission and the regulations of implementing this Article.  
  
 
  
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  15 
 Article (35)  
The Juvenile Association Regulation  
The Minister shall issue the necessary Resolutions to re gulate the Juvenile Association in a 
way that guarantees their care and rehabilitation and the implementation of the sentences 
issued against them in coordination with the competent authority and the concerned party 
in the State.  
  
Article (36)  
The Juvenile Association Powers  
 
1. The Juvenile Association may, on its own or at the request of the Delinquent Juvenile and 
his Guardian, recommend the conditional release of the Juvenile against whom he is 
sentenced, after he has spent half of the term he is sentenced to, if he has behave d well 
during the period he spent in the Juvenile Association. The Executive Regulations shall 
specify this law has criteria and controls for conditional release. In all cases, the release 
resolution shall be issued by the Minister or his authorised repres entative, provided that 
the Public Prosecutor is notified of that.  
2. A Delinquent Juvenile may be granted permission to visit his relatives while placing him 
under Electronic Surveillance. This shall be by a decision of the Public Prosecution after 
revi ewing the Child Protection Specialist Report based on the recommendation of the 
Director of the Juvenile Association. The Executive Regulations of this law shall regulate 
the conditions and controls for granting such permission.  
  
Article (37)  
The Juvenile A ssociation Disciplinary Measures  
The Juvenile Association may take the following disciplinary measures:  
1. Reprimand.  
2. Warning.  
3. Denial of certain benefits.   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  16 
 4. Denial of visit permission.  
5. Social isolation.  
The Executive Regulations of this law shall determine the conditions and controls necessary 
for the implementation of these disciplinary measures.  
  
Article (38)  
Subject to National Counselling Centre  
The Public Prosecutor may subject the Juvenile at Risk of  Delinquency in cases involving a 
terrorist threat to the programmes offered by the National Counselling Centre.  
  
Article (39)  
Penalties  
The imposition of the penalties stipulated in this Law shall be without prejudice to any more 
severe penalty stipulated in any other law.  
  
Article (40)  
Anyone to whom the Juvenile is handed over and who refuses to present him to the 
Competent Authorities upon his request or deliberately refrains from following up on the 
Follow -Up Care Progra mmes shall be punished with a fine of not less than (AED 5000) Five 
Thousand Dirhams and not exceeding (AED 30,000) Thirty Thousand Dirhams.  
  
Article (41)  
Whoever secures place to a Juvenile Delinquent, or incites him to violate it, or helps him to 
do so, s hall be punished by imprisonment and a fine of no less than (AED 50,000) Fifty 
Thousand Dirhams.  
  
Article (42)  
1. Whoever exposes a Juvenile to one of the cases of Delinquency by aiding or inciting him  
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  17 
 to conduct it or facilitating it in any way, even if  the case of Delinquency has not been 
legally established, shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of no less than one 
year and a fine of no less than (AED 50,000) Fifty Thousand Dirhams.  
2. The penalty shall be imprisonment for a period of no les s than two years and a fine of no 
less than (AED 100,000) One Hundred Thousand Dirhams whoever prepares a Juvenile 
to commit offence or performs any preparatory, facilitating or completing work for its 
commission or incites him to commit it, even if the Ju venile has not actually committed 
it. 
3. The penalty shall be imprisonment for a period of no less than (3) three years and a fine 
of no less than (AED 200,000) Two Hundred Thousand Dirhams if the Offender uses 
coercive or threatening means with the Juve nile.  
4. The Offender shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of no less than (5) five 
years if he commits these acts with more than one Juvenile, even at different times.  
5. It is considered an aggravating circumstance if the Offender is the Guardian of the Child, 
and the penalty is multiplied by the number of Children.  
  
Article (43)  
1. Whoever publishes, without permission, the name and photos of the Delinquent 
Juvenile, or  publishes the facts of the investigation or Trial, or its summary, or summary 
of the judgment, in any means of publication, media, or social media, shall be punished 
by imprisonment for a period of no less than one year, and a fine of no less than (AED 
50,000) Fifty Thousand Dirhams.  
2. Whoever obstructs or prevents employees of the Juvenile Association from carrying out 
their duties or obstructs their work without legal support shall be punished by 
imprisonment or a fine of no less than (AED 10,000) Ten  Thousand Dirhams.  
  
Article (44)  
Without prejudice to the penalties stipulated in this law, anyone who violates the 
Regulations and resolutions issued in implementation thereof shall be punished with  
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  18 
 imprisonment or a fine.  
 
Article (45)  
Judicial Control Off icers  
The employees who work in the Juvenile Association shall have the capacity of Judicial 
Control Officers with regard to Juvenile Delinquency.  
  
Article (46)  
Follow -Up Care of the Juveniles  
The Ministry, in coordination with the Competent Authority and the Concerned Entity, shall 
develop programmes and policies necessary for the Follow -Up Care Juveniles and their 
integration into society, as determined by the Executive Regulations of this law . 
The Executive Regulations of this law determine the violations and administrative penalties 
related to the violation of aftercare programs and policies.  
  
Article (47)  
Executive Regulation  
The Cabinet, based on a proposal of the Minister, shall issue the E xecutive Regulations for 
this Decree by Law within three (3) months from the date of its enforcement.  
  
Article (48)  
Repeals  
1. Federal Law No. (9) of 1976  on Delinquent Juveniles and Homeless . 
2. Any provision that violates or contradicts the provisions of this Law shall be repealed.  
3. The Resolutions and Regulations issued prior to the entry into force of this law shall 
remain in force, in a manner th at shall not conflict with its provisions, until the issuance 
of provisions replacing them in accordance with the provisions herein.  
   
Federal Law No. (6) of 2022 on Juvenile Delinquent and Juvenile at Risk of Delinquency  19 
 Article (49)  
Law Publication and Enforcement  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force after (3) three 
months from the date of its publication.  
  
 
 
 
 
Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arabic Emirates  
 
 
Issued by us at the Palace of the Presidenc y in Abu Dhabi:  
On: 19 Jumada Al -Awwal 1444 H  
Corresponding to: December 13, 2022  
 
 