 
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  1 
 
        Federal Law No. (43) for the year 1992  
for organizing the punitive institutions  
We Zayed Ben Sultan Al Nahyan                                    President of United Arab Emirates,  
After reviewing the Provisional Constitution, and : 
Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on competencies of ministries and powers of ministers and laws 
amending thereto, and  
Federal Law No. (10) of 1973 concerning the federal supreme court and laws amending 
thereto, and  
Federal Law No. (9) of 1976 on homeless and delinquent juveniles and  
Federal Law No. (12) of 1976 concerning the police and security forces and laws amending 
thereto, and  
Federal Law No. (6) of 1978 concerning the establishment of the federal courts and 
transforming the competencies of the local judicial bodies in some emirates and laws 
amending thereto, and  
Federal Law No. (3) of 1983 on the federal judicial power and laws amending thereto, and  
Federal Law No. (3) of 1987 concerning issuing the penal code, and  
Federal Law No. (11) of 1992 concerning issuing the penal pr ocedures code and,  
Upon proposal of the Ministries of interior, Justice, and approval of Council of Ministers and 
the National Federal Council and authentication of the higher council of the federation,  
This law is hereby enacted:  
 
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  2 
 
        Article (1)  
Definitions  
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings stated in front of each unless the 
context requires otherwise:  
Penal establishments: The federal penal establishments affiliated to the administration 
concerned with such establishments in  the ministry of Interior.  
The competent administration: the administration concerned with the affairs of the penal 
establishments in the ministry of interior.  
The committee: the committee of rehabilitating the juvenile sentenced to jail  
 
Chapter One  
The kinds and Administration of the Penal Establishments and Inspecting 
Such  
Article (2)  
The penal establishments shall be established and the places and department of each 
establishment shall be determined upon a resolution from the minister of interior  
 
Article (3)  
The penal establishments are three kinds:  
1- Establishments for men.  
2- Establishments for women  
3- Establishments for juveniles sentenced to jail with consideration to separating the two 
sexes  
 
Article (4)  
Without violating the supervision of the public prosecution on the penal establishments as 
per the provisions of the criminal procedures law, such establishments shall follow the 
competent administration in the ministry of interior.  
Each establishment shall be administered by a competent officer who shall be responsible for  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  3 
 
        executing the laws and regulations related to the establishment and concerning what is 
related to guarding the prisoners in the establishment and executing orders issued from the 
competent authorities as per the provision of ar ticle (6) herein.  
The officer shall be aided by an enough number of officers, staff officers, individuals, 
employers and clerks who under his supervision and according to his orders.  
 
Article (5)  
The penal establishment concerned with women shall be manage d with a woman officer who 
shall undertake all tasks and responsibilities assigned to the officer as per the provisions of 
the present law and resolutions executing such law. If it is difficult to be managed with a 
woman officer, it shall be managed with a n officer provided that woman supervision shall 
assist him in performing his tasks and shall be responsible before him.  
Moreover, the employees and clerks of such establishment should be women as possible.  
In all cases, whoever undertakes guarding the wome n prisoners and the service works related 
thereto shall be women.  
 
Article (6)  
The establishment officer shall execute each order issued from the competent public 
prosecution or from the competent court or any other authority concerned legally in addition 
to any order issued from the manager of the competent authority concerning his job duties.  
 
Article (7)  
The following records shall be prepared in each penal establishment.  
1- A public record for each category of the prisoners.  
2- A day book for the establishment.  
3- A record for the Prisoners Secretariats.  
4- A record for working the prisoners.  
5- A record for the disciplinary penalties.  
6- A record of the fugitives.  
7- A record of the complaints and requests submitted from the prisoners.   
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  4 
 
        8- A record  of the judicial papers registrations.  
9- The deportation record.  
10- A record of juveniles' rehabilitation.  
11- Any other record deemed necessary by the public prosecution or the manager of the 
competent administration.  
A file shall be prepared for each p risoner including in particular a comprehensive research 
about his healthy and psychological case in addition to the other paper related to him.  
The executive regulation shall organize the method of keeping such records and files the 
registration of such a nd keeping such except the records decided to be used by the public 
prosecutor as they shall be organized upon his resolution.  
The establishment officer shall be responsible for such records and files.  
 
Article (8)  
The establishment officer shall notify th e prisoner of any judgment or paper in the 
establishment. If the prisoner desires to send any of such to a person or a certain body, such 
papers should be sent with verifying that they reach in the legal time determined for such. 
Each pleading or appeal th at the prisoner desires to file any of such by the establishment 
officer should be verified that they reach to the competent body in the decided time.  
The procedures stated in the previous paragraph shall be recorded in the judicial papers 
registration rec ord, the date of recording such shall be enforced in counting the periods 
stipulated in the laws of civil and criminal procedures.  
 
Article (9)  
Each prisoner shall have the right to submit at any time to the establishment officer a written 
or oral complain t requiring informing such to the competent public prosecution. The officer 
shall accept the complaint and notify such immediately to the public prosecution after 
recording such in the complaint record and shall present to the public prosecution all data 
required.  
 
  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  5 
 
        Article (10)  
The competent public prosecution member shall have the right to enter the penal 
establishments at any time for making sure of executing laws and regulations and that there 
is no any prisoner illegally.  
Such member shall also be entitled to check the records and papers for making sure that they 
are in conformity with laws, regulations and statutes each prisoner shall have the right to meet 
the public prosecution member during his existence in the establishment and to submit a 
comp laint to him and the public prosecution shall examine such complaint and take whatever 
necessary concerning such and notify the public prosecutor of such.  
 
Article (11)  
Each prisoner shall be entitled to submit a complaint to the minister of interior or th e public 
prosecutor or the competent administration manager or the establishment officer. He shall 
also have the right to ask for meeting the manager of the mentioned administration during 
inspecting the establishment.  
The administration manager shall be c ommitted to examine the submitted complaints and 
take the suitable procedure in this concern. The competent administration manager shall 
assign inspectors for inspecting the establishment and examining executing all laws, 
regulations and statutes and fulfi lling conditions of cleanliness, health and security provided 
that he shall charge women inspectors with inspecting the establishments of women as 
possible the inspectors shall submit their reports for the result of inspection to the competent 
administrati on manager.  
 
Article (12)  
The establishment officer shall be committed not to license any person or body to visit the 
establishment unless in cases in which such visit is permissible as per the provisions of this 
law and its executive regulations. The esta blishment officer may order inspecting the 
suspected visitors. If the visitor refuses the inspection, he shall be banned from the visit with 
recording such in the establishment day book.  
  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  6 
 
        Chapter Two  
Depositing the Prisoners and Determining Their Categories  
Article (13)  
It is not allowed to deposit any person at the penal establishment unless upon a written order 
issued from the competent public prosecution or the competent court or any other legally 
competent body. No person may remain in such est ablishment after the period determined 
in this matter.  
The establishment officer should, before accepting any person in such establishment, receive 
the depositing order stating the name of whom issues and sign such order.  
When the prisoner enters such esta blishment, the depositing order shall be summarized in 
the public record of its category, and if he is transformed from an establishment to another, 
he shall be sent with the deposit order and all the other related papers.  
 
Article (14)  
Each prisoner should be inspected when he enters the establishment and what he owns from 
forbidden things money and valuable things shall be taken and committed at the 
establishment safe for receiving such at the time of his release unless he desires to give such 
to a c ertain person who shall deliver such or to whom deputizes the prisoner legally.  
Moreover,  what the prisoner hides or refuses to present shall be subject to the provisions of 
the previous paragraph and the prisoner shall be presented to discipline.  
 
Article (15)  
The prisoner clothes shall be gotten rid of if it is proved that such clothes are harmful to the 
public health inside the establishment. As for other clothes, the prisoner shall keep such 
during his deposit period for a year at least, but if such per iod is more than a year, clothes shall 
be handed over to whom selected by the prisoner or who deputizes him legally as conditions 
may be - if he refuses to hand over such clothes, it is allowed to sell the clothes for the account 
of the prisoner.  
  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  7 
 
        Article (16)  
In applying the provisions of the present law, prisoners are divided into four categories:  
Category (A)  
Including the provisional prisoners and prisoners in a civil debt or a legal alimony or for paying 
the wergild or in cases of civil coercion and al so the convicted in violations to seizure penalty.  
Category (B)  
Including those committed pending execution of the death penalty, discretionary and 
retaliation.  
Category (C)  
Including those sentenced to the penalty of jail, provisional imprisonment or life  
imprisonment  
Category (D)  
Including juveniles sentenced to the penalty of jail.  
Without violating the provision of article (3) herein, in each establishment, there shall be 
places specialized for each of the mentioned category, each Category shall be clas sified into 
degrees as per age, the criminal history, the kind of crimes and the periods and kinds of 
penalty. The executive regulations shall clarify such degrees and the provisions related to 
transforming the prisoner from a degree to another.  
 
Article (17)  
Prisoners of category (A) shall have the following:  
1- The right to wear their own clothes unless the administration decides that they shall wear 
the establishment clothes for considering health or cleanliness or the security interest. 
However they sh all be entitled to wear their own clothes at the time of trial or for any other 
reason.  
2- The right of bringing food types outside the establishment on their own account as per 
what is determined in the executive regulations.  
3- Meeting their visitors and  corresponding with whom they desire unless otherwise is stated 
in the deposit order for preventing such. The visit shall be made under the supervision of the 
establishment officer or his deputy.   
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  8 
 
        The executive regulations shall state the visits' reasons an d time permitted in such in addition 
to the method of registering the visitors' names.  
4- The prisoner provisionally shall have the right of the single residence inside the 
establishment in cases and with conditions stated in the executive regulations.  
 
Article (18)  
The attorney of the prisoner provisionally shall have the right of meeting him in the 
establishment solely. The foreigners imprisoned provisionally shall have the right of 
communicating with their consul or with the authorities responsible for t heir interests.  
In the two cases, a written permission from the competent public prosecution must be 
obtained and the meeting must be in the presence of one of the responsible for the 
establishment in a way that he shall not hear the talk.  
 
Article (19)  
It is not allowed to any of the public prosecution members to communicate with the prisoners 
provisionally inside the establishment unless by a written permission from the competent 
public prosecution.  
The establishment officer shall write in the establishme nt day book, the name of the person 
permitted to do so, the time and period of the meeting and date and content of the permission.  
 
 
 
Article (20)  
The prisoners of category (A)  may only clean their rooms unless the establishment 
administrati on views otherwise for considering their healthy case.  
Those prisoners may, upon the approval of the establishment administration, practise their 
legal careers and hobbies inside the establishment and the possible means for such shall be 
prepared for them.  
If it is necessary to operate one of those prisoners due to his cleverness, he must be given the 
wage suitable for his work.   
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  9 
 
        Article (21)  
The pregnant woman prisoner shall be treated, from time of the pregnancy appearance, as the 
prisoners of category (A)  if she doesn't belong to such category. She shall be exempted from 
working in the establishment and shall be granted a special medical care concerning food and 
sleep. Executing any of the disciplinary procedures on her shall be delayed until the delivery 
as conditions may be she must be transformed to the hospital when the date of delivery 
becomes near and she shall stay there till she gives birth to her baby and until the doctor 
decides that she shall get out from the hospital she and her baby shall be gr anted the 
necessary healthy care, suitable food and clothes and comfort.  
The woman prisoner shall be entitled to keep her baby until the age of two hegira years; but 
if she doesn't want her baby to stay with her or if her baby reaches such age, he shall be  
delivered to whom she selected from those have the nursery right otherwise, he shall be 
delivered to his father. If his father is not present, he shall be committed in one of the child 
care Institution with notifying the mother, in all cases, of his place  and facilitating seeing her 
baby at periodical times in the way stated in the executive regulations.  
In all cases, the child birth certificate should not mention that he is born in the establishment 
or in a hospital related thereto or refer to the case of  his mother imprisonment.  
 
Article (22)  
Prisoners of category (B) may be treated as the prisoners of category (A) if the public 
prosecution or the establishment officer finds so.  
 
Article (23)  
The prisoner of category (C) shall have the right to correspond  his relatives and friends and 
receiving them in the limits of what is decided in the executive regulations. His, attorney 
shall be licensed to meet him alone provided that he shall obtain a written permission from 
the competent public prosecution.  
Such me eting shall be in the presence of one of those responsible for the establishment in a 
way that he shall not hear the talk.  
The establishment officer shall review the correspondences of prisoners of the mentioned  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  10 
 
        category and shall be entitled to ban sendin g or receiving such if he finds a reason for such 
with recording the case in the file of the prisoner.  
 
Article (24)  
It is not allowed that to prisoners of category (C) shall work unless in works determined in 
the executive regulations. They shall be paid a wage suitable for performing such works and 
the work hours may not exceed eight hours a day. In such work, their healthy case shall be 
taken into consideration and they shall work in careers in which they were working outside 
the establishment.  
They may not work on Friday and in the official feasts except the necessary prison works 
such as cleanliness and cooking.  
 
Article (25)  
The manager of the competent administration may, after the approval of the minister of 
interior, decide giving those convict  with the jail penalty from category (C) all or some of the 
privileges decided for the prisoners of category (A).  
 
Article (26)  
The executive regulations shall include the provisions related to the wages due for the 
prisoners of different categories especially concerning the method of determining such and 
the times of paying such.  
Such wages may not be seized.  
 
Article (27)  
If the period of the convict stay in the establishment is more than four years, he should before 
releasing him, pass through a tr ansitional period with consideration to decreasing restrictions 
and granting the privileges gradually as per the conditions stipulated in the executive 
regulations.  
  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  11 
 
        Article (28)  
Periodical reports shall be submitted concerning the behaviour of each prison er of category 
(c) and (d) in the way stated in the executive regulation  
 
Chapter Three  
Health Care  
Article (29)  
Each establishment shall have a doctor or more one of them is resident and charged with the 
prisoners' healthy care as per what is defined in t he executive regulations. He shall be 
committed to check every prisoner at the time of entering the establishment, record his 
healthy and mental case in the public record for each category of the prisoners and to 
determine the works that he is able to perf orm.  
As for the establishments of women, the doctors therein should women unless if it is 
necessary that a male doctor or more should exist.  
 
Article (30)  
The doctor shall visit the establishment and the prisoners for examining the healthy sides and 
what i s related to cleanliness and food. The establishment officer shall execute the healthy 
procedures that the doctor deems necessary.  
The competent establishment administration shall prepare the means of cleanliness and 
physical sport for the prisoners who shall have the right of enjoying two hours daily at least 
from their spare time in the air with in the limits decided in the executive regulations.  
 
Article (31)  
If the establishment doctor finds that the prisoner is afflicted with a mental disease, he sha ll 
decide presenting him to a medical committee formed upon a resolution from the health 
minister, among its members, their shall be one of the prison doctors and the legal doctor for 
examining him and recording his case. If it is decided that he shall be transformed to a hospital 
of mental diseases, he shall be transferred hereto upon an order from the competent  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  12 
 
        administration manager with notifying the public prosecution. The period that he shall spend 
in the hospital shall be discounted from the penalty period.  
 
Article (32)  
If the establishment doctor finds that the prisoner is afflicted with a disease threatening his 
life or the life of others or disables him totally, the establishment's administration shall be 
committed to present him to the medical co mmittee mentioned in the previous article for 
examining him and deciding in his healthy release.  
The healthy release shall be upon a resolution issued from the public prosecutor and the 
ministry of interior shall be notified of such. The police station, in  which department the 
prisoner is resident, shall present such prisoner to the competent governmental doctor every 
three months at maximum, unless he is dismissed from the state, for submitting a medical 
report about him for cancelling the order of the hea lthy release if necessary.  
The report shall be presented to the mentioned medical committee. If it decided that he is 
recovered from the disease that necessitates releasing him, the order shall be offered to the 
public prosecutor for returning the prisoner  to the establishment for completing the 
remaining period of the penalty.  
The period that he spent outside the establishment shall be discounted from the penalty 
period.  
 
Article (33)  
If the case of the patient prisoner reaches the danger degree upon the report of the 
establishment doctor, the establishment administration should notify his family and should 
license them to visit him without being restricted to the official time of the visit.  
If the prisoner died, the doctor shall submit to the public prose cution a report which shall 
include the following details of which he can make sure:  
1- The day when the dead patient complains from the disease for the first time or the day 
when he is noticed to be patient for the first time.  
2- The work that he was perf orming in such day.  
3- The food type that he eats in such day.   
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  13 
 
        4- The day when he enters the hospital.  
5- The day when the prison is notified of the prisoner's disease for the first time.  
6- The disease kind.  
7- The last time the doctor examines the patient before death and the medicine prescribed for 
him.  
8- The time when the prisoner died.  
The decedent family shall be notified immediately for receiving his corpse. If they didn't attend 
at the suitable time, he may be burned in the tomb of the body w here the establishment is 
located after performing the decided legal rituals. In all cases, he may not be buried notifying 
the competent public prosecution pf the death and its reason, and before obtaining the burial 
license.  
 
Chapter Four  
The Social Care,  Education and Teaching the Prisoners  
Article (34)  
Each penal establishment shall have a religious preacher or more for inciting the prisoners to 
apply the religious provisions to acquire the morals and fastening the religious restraint in 
them. In the est ablishment, a place for prayer shall be allocated and each prisoner shall be 
permitted to pray hereto unless if otherwise is necessary for the security moreover each 
establishment shall have a social specialist or more as stated in the executive regulation s a 
committee shall be formed of the establishment officer, preacher, doctor, and social specialist 
such committee shall be specialized in examining the psychological and social case of each 
prisoner and shall present its recommendations to the establishme nt administration 
concerning his treatment according to the result of the examination. Moreover, the 
mentioned committee shall, before releasing the prisoner with an enough period, present the 
guidelines that guarantee an honourable way of life for the rel eased person.  
 
Article (35)  
The establishment administration shall educate the prisoners and train them vocationally 
whenever possible for considering age the extent of preparation and the penalty period. The  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  14 
 
        minister of interior shall, in an agreement wit h the ministry of education, put a curriculum of 
the scientific and vocational study after taking the opinion of the competent administration.  
In each establishment, there shall be a library containing books, newspapers and magazines 
for enlightening the p risoners from the religious, moral and social sides and others in addition 
to encouraging them to make use of such books at their spare time.  
The prisoner may bring on his cost, books magazines and newspapers as per what is decided 
in the executive regulat ions.  
 
Article (36)  
The establishment administration shall encourage the prisoners to review educate and 
facilitate, memorization for the prisoners who have a desire in continuing study in addition to 
permitting performing the exams in the committees headq uarters.  
 
Chapter Five  
Disciplining the prisoners  
Article (37)  
Each prisoner who violates the laws or regulations or statutes applicable in the establishment 
shall be punished disciplinary without violating the criminal responsibility.  
Each prisoner should  be informed of the main duties that should be followed in the 
establishment and also the main forbidden things that should be avoided. The preacher and 
social specialist shall inform them of such duties and forbidden things from time to time.  
 
Article (38 ) 
The disciplinary penalties that may be applied on prisoners are the following:  
1- Warning.  
2- Depriving from all or some privileges decided for his category for a period not more thirty 
days.  
3- Discounting from the wage for a period not more than seven days.  
4- Solitary confinement for a period not more than seven days.   
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  15 
 
        5- Degrading the prisoner for a degree less than his category for a period not exceeding six 
months if he is sentenced to a jail or a provisional imprisonment and a period not more than 
a year if he is sentenced to life imprisonment.  
The establishment officer shall be entitled to implement the penalties stipulated in the 
mentioned items No (1), (2), (3) and (4).  
The penalty stipulated in item (5) of the present article shall be implemented  upon an order 
from the competent administration manager based on the request of the establishment 
officer.  
 
Article (39)  
No penalty of the penalties stated in the previous article may not be implemented unless after 
making an investigation including facin g the prisoner with the crime attributed to him and 
hearing his sayings and his attorney. The resolution of implementing the penalty shall be 
reasonable and final.  
The investigation should be in writing upon the knowledge of whom the establishment officer 
deputizes for this purpose.  
In case of warning, the investigation may be oral provided that its content should be recorded 
in a minute signed by the investigator.  
The penalties implemented on the prisoners shall be written in the record related to such and  
the public prosecution shall be notified of such.  
 
Article (40)  
Implementing any disciplinary penalty shall not prevent releasing the prisoner in the 
appointed time by virtue of the judgment issued against him or the order of his jail or 
commitment.  
 
 
 
 
  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  16 
 
        Chapter Six 
Releasing the Prisoners  
Article (41)  
The prisoner shall be released at the afternoon of the day next to the day of ending the penalty 
period however, if the prisoner is decided to be put under the police probation or is among 
those who should b e offered to the police, as per the law, the establishment administration 
should hand over the prisoner to the competent police station at the time stated in the 
previous paragraph.  
If the prisoner is committed pending executing a body penalty the commitme nt order should 
mention the date of handing him over to the body that shall execute the penalty and the 
establishment body should hand the prisoner over to such body at the appointed time.  
If the prisoner doesn't have suitable clothes at the time of his re lease and he is unable to obtain 
such, the establishment administration shall give him clothes as stated in the executive 
regulations.  
 
Article (42)  
The prisoner provisionally shall be released as soon as he completed the period mentioned in 
the commitment  order unless it is extended or an order of releasing is issued before 
completing this period from the competent authorities unless he is imprisoned for another 
reason.  
 
Article (43)  
The healthy release of the prisoner shall be according to the provisions stated in article (32)  
 
Article (44)  
Each person sentenced to a freedom -restricting penalty shall be release for a period of a 
month or more if he spent three quarter of the penalty period and if during his existence in 
the establishment, he was a good con duct and his release shall not have a danger on the public 
security.   
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  17 
 
        If the penalty is the life imprisonment, he shall be released if he spent twenty years at least.  
Such release shall be upon a resolution from the minister of interior and the public prose cutor 
shall be notified of a copy of such.  
 
Article (45)  
The person sentenced to the life imprisonment, who spent fifteen years in executing the 
penalty, may submit a request to the establishment officer for releasing him and the officer 
shall say his opinion in such request and then he shall refer such with the  prisoner file to the 
competent administration for exposing its opinion in the extent of the danger of releasing the 
prisoner on the public security. Afterwards, the papers shall be referred to the competent 
public prosecution for investigation the request  and asking about the prisoner behaviour and 
making sure of his good conduct, and then the papers shall be submitted attached with its 
opinion to the court that issued the judgment with the penalty  
The court shall judge releasing the prisoner if he proved to be of a good conduct. It may 
accompany the release with any of the procedures stipulated in the penal code.  
The court judgment of approving or disapproving the request shall not accept appeal and if 
the request is refused, new request may not be submitted before a year at least from date of 
judgment with refusing the previous request.  
 
Article (46)  
With consideration to the provisions of multiplying the crimes and the penalties stipulated in 
the penal code, in case of multiplying the sentenced pen alties for crimes committed before 
the sentenced enters the establishment, the release shall be on basis of the total of the periods 
of such penalties.  
However, if the convict committed a crime during his absence in the establishment, the 
release shall be on basis of the remaining period at the time of committing the crime in 
addition to the period of the sentenced penalty because of committing such crime.  
 
Article (47)  
If the convict spent a period in the provisional jail, the release shall be on the basis  of the whole  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  18 
 
        sentenced period including the period of the provisional jail that should be discounted from 
the penalty period.  
If a pardon is issued concerning decreasing the penalty period, the period decreased from the 
penalty by virtue of the pardon sha ll not enter in the counting the period that should be spent 
in the establishment for the release.  
 
Article (48)  
The public prosecutor shall be entitled to view the complaints submitted concerning the 
release, examine such and take whatever necessary for a rising the reasons of such.  
 
Chapter Seven  
Rehabilitating the Juveniles  
Article (49)  
A committee for rehabilitating the juveniles shall be formed upon a resolution from the 
minister of interior, in agreement with the minister of justice and Labour and soci al affairs, 
headed by one of the presidents of the federal public prosecution, including the following in 
its membership:  
1- The establishment officer.  
2- One of the specialists in psychology.  
3- A representative of the ministry of education.  
4- A represen tative of the social affairs.  
The committee shall be entitled to ask the aid of whom it deemed necessary from the 
concerned.  
 
Article (50)  
The committee shall be specialized in putting the annual programs for educating, 
rehabilitating the juveniles and discussing giving the privileges decided for them in the 
present law.  
  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  19 
 
        Article (51)  
Without restricting to the period stipulated in article (27) herein, the juvenile may be licensed 
to go out the establishment to visit his relatives in the official feasts and the exceptional 
conditions or in any other occasion. He may also be given an exceptional vocation, upon a 
resolution from the minister of interior based on the committee recommendation.  
The executive regulations shall organize the conditions and rules of giving the juvenile such 
privileges.  
 
Article (52)  
Upon a resolution from the minister of interior, the law of the restricted freedom of the 
juveniles may be applied through their working outside the establishment in any commercial 
or industrial establi shment or other during the day and upon the committee 
recommendation.  
 
Article (53)  
The establishment officer shall be responsible for running the work herein and shall 
undertake supervising the execution of the program of rehabilitating the juveniles in t he light 
of what is decided by the committee.  
 
Article (54)  
If the imprisoned juveniles reach the age of eighteen, places separated from those who do not 
reach such age shall be specialized for them.  
 
Article (55)  
The disciplinary penalties that may be imp lemented on the juveniles are the following:  
1- Reprimand.  
2- Warning.  
3- Depriving from all or some of the privileges for a period not exceeding two weeks.  
4- Depriving from vacations for a period not exceeding forty five day.   
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  20 
 
        Chapter Eight  
 Executing the Penalties  
Article (56)  
The death penalties and the remaining retaliation and doctrinal penalties shall be executed as 
per the provisions of the Islamic Shari'ah.  
 
Article (57)  
The convict corpse shall be delivered to his family after the exe cution. If no one of his family 
comes for receiving such during twenty four hour, the establishment administration shall 
bury the corpse without violating the decided religious rituals.  
  
Chapter Nine  
Final Provisions  
Article (58)  
The establishment officer  may order, as a provisional procedure, shackling his hands and legs 
if he causes a riot a strong attack or there is a fear of his escape.  
He shall be committed to refer the order immediately competent administration manager for 
discussing applying the dis ciplinary penalties on the prisoner.  
The shackling period may not be more than seventy -two  hours before applying the 
disciplinary penalties. The matter shall be recorded in the establishment day record with a 
statement of the reasons of such.  
  
Article (59 ) 
Without violating the cases and conditions of using the weapon stipulated in the mentioned 
federal law no. (12) For the year 1976, the establishment officer and the police men, assigned 
to the guardianship, may use their fire weapons against the prisoner s in the following cases:  
1- Deterring any attach or resistance accompanied with using strength if they are unable to 
deter such with the other means.  
2- Ending the prisoners' rebellion if they are armed with killing instruments and they refused  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  21 
 
        getting ri d of such instruments after asking them for doing such.  
3- Preventing the prisoner escape if he cannot be prevented by other means. In such case, 
firing shall be in the air. If such is not benefit, he shall be fired in his legs.  
In all cases, the public prosecution should be notified immediately for making the 
investigation and the ministry of interior should also be notified.  
  
Article (60)  
The prisoners should also be notified, when they enter the penal establishment and when 
they leave such for working  outside, of the provisions of articles (58) and (59) herein and of 
the penalties decided for escaping from the establishment.  
  
Article (61)  
The following shall be punished with jail for a period not exceeding six months and a fine not 
exceeding three thousand dirham or with one of such two penalties:  
1- Each person who enters or attempts to enter any thing violating laws, regulations and 
resolutions regulating the establishment inside the establishment with any method and also 
any person who enters or get out messages from the establishment violating the mentioned 
laws, regulations and resolutions.  
2- Each person who gives a prisoner any forbidden thing during his transformation from a 
body to another.  
If one of the crimes stipulated in the previous ite ms are committed by one of the workers in 
the establishment or those assigned to guard the prisoner, the penalty shall be for a period 
not less than three months and a fine not less them three thousand dirham or one of the two 
penalties without violating a ny server penalty.  
The establishment administration should hang the text of the present article in a clear place 
on its outside door.  
  
Article (62)  
An isolated place shall be specialized in the establishment for the foreigners about whom a 
judicial judgme nt is issued for their deportation from the state in order to be sized therein  
Federal Law No. (43) for the year 199 2 fo r organizing the punitive institutions  22 
 
        provisionally until the deportation order is executed.  
Those shall be treated as those imprisonments provisionally.  
  
Article (63)  
The executive regulations for this law shall b e issued upon a resolution from the minister of 
interior in an agreement with the minister of justice.  
  
Article (64)  
The Ministers, each in his respective powers, shall implement this law.  
  
Article (65)  
This law shall be promulgated in the official gazette and shall be in effect after six months 
from date of its promulgation.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
Issued by us in the presidency palace in Abu Dhabi  
Date: 13 Rabi' al -thani 1413 H.  
Corresponding to : 10 October 1992 AD.  
 
 