  
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  1 
 Federal Law No. 23 of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  
 
We, Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,                          the President of United Arab Emirates,  
- Having reviewed  the Constitution;  
- Federal Supreme Council Resolution No. (4) of 1972 concerning the Establishment of a 
General Directorate for Civil Defense ; 
- Federal Law No (1) of 1972  concerning the Ministries Competencies and Powers of 
Ministers and the amendments thereto;  
- Federal Law No. (12) of 1976  concerning the Police and Security Forces and the laws 
amending thereof;  
- Federal Law No. (3) of 1979  concerning the Civil Defense  and the laws amending thereof;  
- Civil Transactions Law promulgated by Federal Law No. (5) of 1985  and the laws 
amending thereof;  
- Penal Code promulgated by Federal Law No. (3) of 1987  and the laws amending thereof, 
the Penal Procedures Code promulgated by Federal Law No. (35) of 1992  and the laws 
amending thereof;  
- Federal Law No. (21) of 2001  concerning the Civil Service in the Federal Government and 
the amendments thereto; and  
- Federal Law No. (9) of 2004 concerning the Civil Defense  Volunteering,  
- And upon the submissions made by the Minister of Interior, approved by the Cabinet and 
endorsed by the Federal Supreme Council,  
We promulgate the following law:  
  
 
First Section: General Provisions  
Article (1)  
Definitions  
For the purpose of this law and unless otherwise required by the text, the following words and 
expressions shall have the meanings assigned thereto:  
Country  : The  United Arab Emirates  
Emirate  : Any of the Country's emirates.  
Area  : A part of an Emirate.  
Ministry  : Ministry of Interior.  
Minister  : Minister of Interior.  
Undersecretary  : Ministry Undersecretary    
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  2 
 Department  : Department of Civil Defense  
Council  : Civil Defense  Council  
Chairman  : Chairman of the Council.  
Concerned 
Authorities  : Any governmental or non governmental authority that takes part in 
providing support to the civil Defense  to face the Dangers and Disasters.  
General 
Department  : General Department of Civil Defense . 
General 
Director  : General Director of Civil Defense . 
Subdivisions  : Subdivisions of the civil Defense  established in the different areas of the 
Country.  
Head of Civil 
Defense  
Department  : Head of Civil Defense  Department at the Emirate or Area.  
Civil Defense  
Procedures  : The procedures and measures adopted by the Department to safeguard 
the lives, properties, utilities, public and private projects and national 
resources.  
Civil Defense  : The procedures and measures adopted by the Department to safeguard 
the lives, properties, utilities, public and private projects and national 
resources.  
Disaster  : Any natural or unnatural occurrence that expectedly or unexpectedly 
takes place and threat ens lives, causes losses to properties or 
environment or hinders the progress of life. Such occurrence can not be 
faced by normal means of emergency and requires unification of efforts.  
Dangers  : Any severe occurrence that has taken place or that is expected to take 
place and for facing which, the Department shall be ready.  
Public Alarm  : A public call on the military and civil staff and volunteers working in the 
Department to be ready to face the Disaster.  
 
Volunteer  : A civilian who voluntarily participates in the civil Defense  operations in 
times of war and peace and in emergencies and  Disasters.  
 
 
Article (2)  
The Department is a regular civil authority in charge of taking all actions and initiating all works 
that guarantee the protection of lives, properties and national wealth resources in times of war 
and peace and in emergencies and Disasters. The military staff of the Department shall be subject   
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  3 
 to the laws regulating the Police and Security Forces. The civil staff however shall be subject to 
the laws regulating the civil service in the Federal Government.  
The Ministe r shall head the Department and may have the right to supervise and control the work 
progress therein.  
  
Second Section: Formation of the Civil Defense  Department  
Article (3)  
The Department shall consist of:  
First:  
 The Council  
 
Second:  
  General Department and Subdivisions  
 
Third:  
 Local Committees of Civil Defense  
 
Fourth:  
 The Volunteers  
 
  
Article (4)  
The Council  
1. The Council shall consist of:  
• The Minister, Chairman  
• The Undersecretary, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Education, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Public Works, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Energy, Electricity & Water Sector, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Labour, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Trade and I ndustry, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Health, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Community Development, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Environment and Water, Member  
• Undersecretary of the Ministry of Economy, M ember  
• A representative from the General Commandership of Armed Forces, Member  
• A representative from the National Transport Authority, Member  
• General Secretary of Municipalities, Member  
• General Director of the Federal Environmental Agency, Member  
• Chairman o f the Red Crescent Society, Member  
• The General Director of Civil Defense , Member    
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  4 
 2. The Undersecretary shall replace the Chairman in case of his absence.  
  
Article (5)  
1. The Council shall meet at least once every six months upon an invitation by the Chairman. 
The Council may convene a meeting in emergencies upon a request by the Chairman or the 
majority of members. A meeting shall be valid if the majority of members are present. The 
Council decisions shall be adopted by majority of present votes. In c ase of equality if votes, 
the Chairman of the session shall have a casting vote.  
2. The Council may seek the assistance of experts and specialists as it deems fit without that they 
have countable votes.  
  
Article (6)  
The Council shall have a general secretari at to be in charge of organizing the administrative and 
technical issues. The formation and jurisdictions of such secretariat shall be decided upon a 
resolution by the Chairman.  
  
Article (7)  
The Council shall be in charge of the following:  
1. To take part in setting the general policy of civil Defense . 
2. To approve and follow up with the plans and projects required for the implementation of the 
general policy of civil Defense . 
3. To determine the duties and responsibilities of Concerned Authorities in relation to the civil 
Defense . 
4. To approve the conditions and specifications of constructing the public and private shelters.  
5. To identify the cities and areas where all or some civil Defense  procedures are applied and to 
set the priority of implementatio n in emergency cases.  
6. To approve the draft annual budget of the General Department before submission to the 
Ministry for approval.  
7. To cooperate and coordinate with the departments of free zones in the Country concerning 
the conditions of safety and security therein.  
8. To recommend the declaration of a Disaster to the President of the Country.  
9. To adopt the proper decisions in relation to the potential Dangers and the way of facing 
thereof in view of the results and recommendations submitted by the Local  Committees of 
Civil Defense . 
10. Any other duties as assigned by the Cabinet within the jurisdiction of civil Defense . 
  
   
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  5 
 Article (8)  
 General Department and Subdivisions  
The General Department and Subdivisions shall be responsible to carry out the procedures  and 
works stated herein, to implement the civil Defense  procedures, take all necessary precautions 
and to avoid and mitigate the Dangers in collaboration and coordination with the Concerned 
Authorities and shall in particular be in charge of the following : 
1. To suggest the general policy of civil Defense . 
2. To prepare and follow up with the plans and projects required for the implementation of the 
general policy of civil Defense . 
3. To set the conditions and specifications of constructing the public and private shelters.  
4. Any other duties as assigned by the Council within the jurisdiction of civil Defense . 
  
Article (9)  
Local Committees of Civil Defense  
1. A local committee of civil Defense  shall be formed in each Emirate or areas as follows:  
• The representative of the Ruler, Chairman  
• General Director of Police, Member  
• General Director of Civil Defense , Member  
• General Director of Municipality, Member  
• Director of the Medical Territory, Member  
• Director of the Educational Territory, Member  
• Director of Labour Office, Member  
• Director of the Territory set in the Ministry of Energy, Electricity & Water Sector, Member  
• Director of the Electricity and Water Authority in the concerned Emirate, Member.  
• Director of the Agricultural Territory, Ministry of Environment and Water, Member  
• Head of the Office of the Ministry of Public Works, Member  
• A representative from the communication companies and corporations, Member  
• Director of Emirates Telecommunications A uthority Branch, Member  
• A representative from the General Commandership of Armed Forces, Member  
• Director of the Office of the Ministry of Economy, Member  
• Director of the Red Crescent Branch, Member  
2. The Director of Police in the Emirate or Area shall replace the Chairman of the Committee in 
case of his absence.  
  
Article (10)  
1. The Committee shall meet at least once every three months upon an invitation by the 
Chairman in the venue set by the Chairman or, if possible, in the Disaster place. A meeting   
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  6 
 shall be valid if the majority of members are present. The Council decisions sha ll be adopted 
by majority of present votes. In case of equality if votes, the Chairman of the session shall have 
a casting vote. A civil Defense  officer shall take the office of secretary general of the 
Committee.  
2. The Committee may seek the assistance of e xperts and specialists as it deems fit without that 
they have countable votes.  
  
Article (11)  
The Local Committees of Civil Defense  shall be in charge of the following:  
1. To implement the plans and projects of civil Defense . 
2. To regularly study the potential Dangers, suggest ways of facing such Dangers and submit the 
study results and recommendations to the Council to take necessary decision.  
3. To take all necessary actions and measurements to achieve the purposes of civil Defense . 
4. To create awareness among the community members and urge them to participate in civil 
Defense  operations as volunteers.  
5. To manage the operation rooms and centers to follow up with the progress of Disasters and 
supervise the measures and actions adopted in such cases.  
 
Article (12)  
Civil Defense  Procedures  
The Civil Defense  procedures shall include in particular:  
1. To study the possible Dangers and Disasters and set the plans necessary for management of 
such Dangers and Disasters.  
2. To prepare the preventive programs against the possible Dangers and Disasters and their 
requirements.  
3. To prepare the necessary plans for the management of Dangers and Disasters in emergencies.  
4. To establish and furnish emergency management rooms and centers.  
5. To set a Public Alarm sy stem against possible Dangers.  
6. To set evacuation plans in emergencies.  
7. To establish public shelters and supervise the establishment of private shelters in the 
buildings, institutions and refuge places and to provide medical and social care to the afflicted  
ones.  
8. To prepare and procure the equipment, machines and tools necessary for the civil Defense  
operations.  
9. To form the necessary teams who shall carry out the aid and relief works in the afflicted areas.  
10. To prepare the training programs and joint imaginar y exercise for the civil Defense  personnel, 
volunteers and civilians.    
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  7 
 11. To set the awareness programs and keep the Media aware of their duties in emergencies.  
12. To monitor the Dangers of radiation, chemical and biological pollution in times of war and 
peace an d to take the necessary actions in coordination with the Concerned Authorities.  
13. To coordinate the mutual assistance among the emirates of the Country in relation to the civil 
Defense . 
14. To establish assistance and support centers and identify their duties to  enhance the civil 
Defense  services at the national, regional and international level. A resolution by the Cabinet 
shall be issued in this regard.  
15. To contribute in rehabilitating the afflicted areas and provide new public and private utilities 
in the affli cted areas.  
  
Article (13)  
Upon a suggestion by the Council, the Chairman shall adopt the necessary decisions to 
implement the civil Defense  procedures and measures to be taken by the Concerned Authorities.  
  
Article (14)  
In cases of emergency, Disasters and danger, the Chairman may issue a resolution to confiscate 
the properties, assets and vehicles of others to the extent required for the im plementation of civil 
Defense  procedures and operations provided that the confiscation is for a temporary period and 
against a fair compensation.  
  
Article (15)  
For the purpose of implementation of the Civil Defense  operation, the General Department and 
Subdivisions shall have the right to use the properties and installations against a fair 
compensation in case of any damage resulting from such use. The owner, occupant or user of a 
property or an installation shall not take any action against such right.  
  
Fourth Section: Cooperation and Coordination  
Article (16)  
The Department may coordinate with the Armed Forces upon a resolution by the Minister in 
agreement with the Minister of Defense  in the following issues:  
1. The duties of the Armed Forces in delivering the alarm.  
2. The bases of cooperation between the Armed Forces and Civil Defense . 
3. To identify the statistical data and information provided by the Armed Forces and the way of 
providing such data and information in wartimes.  
4. To carry out the operations and in structions of civil Defense  in the camps and units of Armed 
Forces.    
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  8 
   
Article (17)  
The General Department and Subdivisions shall cooperate with the concerned departments to 
prepare and coordinate the medical, social, engineering, administrative, police, armed forces and 
other services necessary to face the possible Dangers.  
  
Article (18)  
The General Department and Subdivisions shall coordinate with the authorities that have interior 
security and safety departments particularly the  oil companies and airports to organize the means 
of support by the civil Defense  to such authorities upon request.  
  
Article (19)  
All the Concerned Authorities shall provide the General Department and local committee with all 
the requested information, data or services to implement the works and procedures of civil 
Defense . 
  
Article (20)  
The authorities identified upon a resolution by the Minister shall appoint or assign experienced 
personnel to be responsible for all matters related to the implementation of the fire prevention 
and building safety requirements in their buildings, to set and implement the internal plans of 
facing the possible Dangers in the installation and to evacuate the occupants in collaboration and 
coordination with the General Department and Subdivisions.  
  
Article (21)  
The authorities in charge of issuing building or installation licenses shall not issue such li censes 
unless the concerned person submits an official certificate issued by the concerned Department 
of civil Defense  stating that the building or installation meets the safety and security 
requirements.  
 
Fifth Section: Financial System  
Article (22)  
The S tate shall bear the costs of implementing the procedures, plans and projects of civil Defense . 
A fund shall be assigned for the Civil Defense  Department in the general budget of the State.  
The Minister may disperse from such funds in cases of emergencies o r Disasters.  
  
Article (23)  
1. The State shall fairly indemnify all those afflicted by the civil Defense  experiments or   
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  9 
 operations provided that the afflicted persons claim the indemnification within sixty days as 
of the date of occurrence of the damage unless the failure to claim is beyond their control.  
2. Upon a decision by the Chairman, an expert committee shall be formed to consider the 
indemnification claim. The Committee shall issue its decision in such claims within sixty days 
as of their submission date.  
Without prejudice to the provisions of the civil liability stated in the Civil Transactions Code, 
the concerned person may submit a grievance against the Committee decision within thirty 
days as of the date of being notified of such decision.  
  
Article (24)  
Upon a suggestion by the Minister, the Cabinet shall issue a table of charges to be collected from  
the beneficiaries of the civil Defense  services and a table of penalties applied in case of breach of 
the provisions of this law and the resolutions issued in implementation thereof.  
  
Article (25)  
The concerned ministries, authorities and public institut ions shall, after consultation with the 
General Department, assign in their annual budget, the necessary funds under the item (civil 
Defense ) to carry out the duties assigned thereto within their duties or services.  
  
Article (26)  
In cases of emergencies or Disasters, the requirements of civil Defense  may be purchased directly 
without need of tenders.  
  
 
Article (27)  
The equipment, machines and tools imported for the General Department and Subdivisions shall 
be exempted from all tax  and custom duties.  
  
Article (28)  
After the Minister's approval, the General Department may accept donations and contributions 
for the civil Defense  provided that such donations and contributions are not conditioned.  
  
Sixth Section: Penalties  
Article (29)  
Shall be punished with imprisonment for not more than six months or with the fine set in the 
table issued by the Cabinet whoever breaches this law or the regulations and resolutions issued 
in implementation thereof.    
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  10 
 In cases of Disasters, the penalty shall be imprisonment for not less than two months and a fine 
of not less than AED (20000) twenty thousand and not more than AED (250000) two hundred 
and fifty thousand or either penalty.  
  
Article (30)  
Shall be punished with the penalty set in article (29)  hereof whoever intentionally commits an 
act or omission that may hinder or stop the machines and equipment installed for civil Defense  
purpose.  
If the act or omission is intentional, the perpetrator shall be charged the cost of damaged 
machines and equipment or the cost of reinstallation.  
  
Article (31)  
The penalties set out in t his law shall not affect any more severe  penalties provided by any other 
law.  
  
Seventh Section: Final Provisions  
Article (32)  
In cases of Disasters, every citizen shall be liable to provide any possible assistance to the civil 
Defense  to the extent requir ed. 
  
Article (33)  
In cases of Disasters, the Minister may oblige certain authorities and those who exercise special 
professions to stay in their positions to ensure the normal progress of daily life.  
  
Article (34)  
The officers, non -commissioned officers and personnel of civil Defense  shall have the capacity of 
judicial officers for the implementation of the provisions of this law.  
  
Article (35)  
The Minister shall issue the regulations and resolutions required for t he implementation of this 
law.  
  
Article (36)  
Any text in contradiction of the provisions of this law shall be repealed, and the Federal Law No. 
(3) of 1979  referred to above shall be repealed. The regulations and resolutions issued for the 
implementation of such law shall remain in force without prejudice to the provisions of this law 
until the alterative regulations and re solutions are issued.    
Federal Law of 2006 Concerning the Civil Defense  11 
   
Article (37)  
This law shall be published in the official gazette, and shall come into force three months from 
the date of publishing thereof.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Signed]  
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
The President of United Arab Emirates  
 
Issued in the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi  
On 14 Jumada Al -Akhera 1427 AH  
Corresponding 9 July 2006  