Federal La w of 2004 on Volunteering in Civil Defence  1 
 Federal Law No. (9) of 2004  
on Volunteering in Civil Defence  
 
We, Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan                                  President of the U nited Arab Emirates ; 
- Upon reviewing the Constitution;  
- Federal Law No. (1) of 1972; Concerning the Jurisdictions of the Ministries and Powers of 
the Ministers and the laws amending it;  
- Federal Law No. (12) of 1976 on Police and Security Forces and the amending laws;  
- Federal Law No. (3) of 1979 on Civil Defence and the amending laws;  
- Feder al Law No. (21) of 2001 on Civil Service in the Federal Government;  
- Upon the proposal of the Minister of Interior as approved by the Cabinet and the Federal 
National Council, and as ratified by the Federal Supreme Council,  
Have issued the following Law:  
Article (1)  
In applying the provisions of this Law, the following words shall have the meanings ascribed 
thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:  
The State  : The United Arab Emirates (UAE).  
Ministry  : Ministry of Interior.  
Minister  : Minister of Interior.  
Directorate  : General Directorate of Civil Defence.  
Directorate  : Every civil person applying as a volunteer to participate in civil defence 
works, whether in case of peace, war, disasters or emergencies.  
Volunteer  : Every civil person applying as a volunteer to participate in civil defence 
works, whether in case of peace, war, disasters or emergencies.  
 
 
 
 
 Federal La w of 2004 on Volunteering in Civil Defence  2 
 Article (2)  
A volunteer shall fulfil the following requirements:  
1. He shall be of good conduct.  
2. He shall not be less than (16) sixteen years of age.  
3. He shall be medically fit.  
 
Article (3)  
Volunteering shall be joined subject to an application to be submitted to Directors of General 
Directorates of Civil Defence on the template prepared for this purpose and the Minister shall 
issue a decision concerning such application.  
 
Article (4)  
A volunteer shall perform the following tasks and duties:  
1. To help in firefighting.  
2. To participate in rescuing and aiding injured and wounded persons and taking t hem to 
the nearest treatment unit.  
3. To participate in sheltering and evacuation operations for the victims and homeless 
because of wars, disasters or other events, relieving and providing necessary services for 
them.  
4. To participate in the works of applicati on of preventive requirements, safety and 
preventive education as well as increasing the morale of society members.  
5. To report any strange and suspicious materials, such as explosives, bombs or any other 
materials of possible danger.  
6. To supervise and prepar e hangers and to guide individuals to its places.  
7. To educate society members with the importance of civil defence and encourage them to 
join as volunteers.  
8. Any other duties assigned to the volunteer in cases of peace, war, disasters, emergencies 
or any oth er events.  
9. The role of the female volunteer shall be confined to any work that fits her nature and 
does not contradict with the provisions of Islamic Sharia.  Federal La w of 2004 on Volunteering in Civil Defence  3 
  
Article (5)  
Training courses shall be prepared for volunteers, and the Directorate shall determin e the type 
and periods of such courses.  
 
Article (6)  
1. A volunteer shall promptly be absent from his original work in cases of peace, war, 
disasters, emergencies or any other events whenever he is called by the Directorate. Salary 
or wage the volunteer colle cts from his original work shall continue to be released if the 
volunteer is an employee at federal or local government entities or if he works in the 
private sector.  
2. A non -employee shall be granted a remuneration if the period of using his volunteer work 
exceeds 24 hours for each case he is called for volunteer service. Remuneration shall be 
determined by the committee stipulated in the aforementioned Federal Law No. (3) of 
1979.  
3. The Directorate shall provide the needs of the volunteer, including food, clothes and 
treatment during his volunteer work.  
4. The Directorate shall provide an appropriate means of transport for the volunteer when 
he is called for a duty if he lives outside the operations area.  
5. Period of volunteering shall be calculated within  the actual service of the volunteer at his 
original employer.  
6. The Directorate may grant the volunteer who achieves heroic, brave and distinguished 
acts during his volunteer work medals, certificates of appreciation and incentive rewards.  
 
Article (7)  
With out prejudice to provisions decided in Islamic Sharia and legislations applicable in the State, 
a decision shall be issued by the Minister to determine the value of compensation to be given in 
case of the volunteer's injury or death during or because of th e volunteer work.  
 
 Federal La w of 2004 on Volunteering in Civil Defence  4 
 Article (8)  
The volunteer shall abide by the following:  
1. Respond to the call of the Directorate and arrive quickly to the area where the volunteer 
is called any time he is required to do so.  
2. Not to abandon the work assigned to him or refuse to proceed without an acceptable 
excuse.  
3. Not to tell any statement to media without a prior permission from the Directorate.  
4.  Not to make any actions that are in odd with public conduct.  
5. Not to disclose any confidential matter due to its nature or s ubject to regulations and by -
laws of Civil Defence.  
6. Keep all tools, equipment and devices the volunteer delivers as a trust and to return the 
same promptly upon leaving the service, and shall report in case any of these tools, 
equipment or devices is damag ed or lost.  
7. Notify the Directorate with any change that occurs in his details such as his name, 
nationality, address or phone number and other basic details.  
8. Maintain the confidentiality of secrets and privacy of persons who receive the required 
help while  previewing their privacy peculiarities pursuant to the values, habits and 
traditions.  
 
Article (9)  
A volunteer shall be deemed, subject to this law, a public service person with respect to all works 
of civil defence assigned to the volunteer.  
 
Article (10 ) 
A volunteer shall be released from his volunteer work for one of the following reasons:  
1. Crippling disease.  
2. Permanent disability.  
3. Residency expiration in the State.  Federal La w of 2004 on Volunteering in Civil Defence  5 
 4. To be punished with a freedom -restricting penalty in a felony or misdemeanour, 
misdemeanour violating honour, trust or a crime against the external or internal security 
of the State.  
5. If the volunteer expresses his desire in writing to be exempted and the Directorate accepts 
such request.  
Article (11)  
A special item in t he budget of the Ministry shall be created to cover the expenses required for 
the execution of the provisions of this Law.  
 
Article (12)  
A volunteer shall be subject to provisions of the Regulation that will be issued by the Minister 
with respect to discip line and investigation of violations and related penalties.  
 
Article (13)  
The Minister shall issue the Regulations and Resolutions necessary to apply the provisions of this 
Law.  
 
Article (14)  
Any provision that violates or contradicts the provisions of thi s Law shall be repealed.  
 
Article (15)  
This Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force as of the date of its 
publication.  
 
Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan 
President of the United Arab Emirat es  
 
Issued by Us at the Palace of the Presidency in Abu Dhabi:  
On: 08 Rabi' I 1425 H  
Corresponding to: 27 April 2004 AD  