 
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  1 
 Federal Decree -Law No. )24   (of 2023 
on Combating Human Trafficking  
 
We, Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan         President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− Upon reviewing the Constitution , 
− Federal Law No. )1( of 1972 Concerning the Competence of Ministries and Powers of 
Ministers, as amended,  
− Federal Law No. (51) of 2006 Concerning Combating Human Trafficking Crimes, as 
amended,  
− Based on the proposal of the Minister of Justice and the Approval of the Council of 
Ministers,  
We do hereby enact the following Decree Law:  
  
Article (1) 
Definitions  
In applying the provisions of this Decree -Law, the following words and expressions shall 
have the meanings assigned to each of them, unless the context otherwise requires:  
The State  
 : United Arab Emirates.  
 
Competent 
Authorities  
 : Competent Federal Authorities.  
 
Concerned 
Entities  
 : Local Concerned Entities.  
 
Human 
Trafficking  
 : Crime set forth in article (2) herein.  
 
Child  : Every human being born alive who has not reached (18)  
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  2 
  eighteen years old (Gregorian Calendar).  
 
An Organised 
Criminal Group 
(OCG)  
 : A group composed of at least (3) three persons, acting in 
concert with the aim of committing any of the crimes set 
forth h erein in order to directly or indirectly obtain a 
financial or other benefit.  
 
A Crime of a 
Transnational 
Nature (CTN)  
 : A crime shall be of a transnational nature if it is committed 
in more than one state, or committed in one state, yet it was 
prepared,  planned, directed, supervised in another state. A 
Crime of a transnational nature may also be a crime 
committed in one state by an organised criminal group 
engaging in criminal activities in more than one state, or 
any crime committed in one state and con sequences 
thereof impacted other state.  
 
Funds  
 : Assets, regardless of the method of acquisition, type and 
form, material or moral, movable or immovable, electronic, 
digital or encrypted, including the national currency, 
foreign currencies. In addition to legal documents and 
instruments of any form, including the electronic or digital 
form that prove the ownership of those assets, shares or 
rights related thereto. As well as the economic re sources 
that are considered assets of any type, including natural 
resources, bank credits, checks, payment orders, stocks, 
securities, bonds, bills of exchange, letters of credit. 
Moreover, any interest, profits, or other income derived or 
arising from the se assets and can be used to obtain any 
financing, goods, or service s. 
Proceeds  : Funds, directly or indirectly, generating from committing  
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  3 
  any of the crimes set forth herein. This shall include profits, 
concessions, economic interests and any similar fu nds 
whether fully or partially transferred into other funds.  
 
Victim  
 : Every natural person who has suffered material or moral 
damage as a result of one of the criminal acts punishable in 
accordance with the provisions hereof.  
 
Article (2) 
 The Crime of Human Trafficking  
1. Whoever do any of the following shall be deemed to have committed a human 
trafficking offence:  
A. Whoever sells, offers to sell or purchase, promises to sell or purchase, recruits, uses, 
conscripts, transports, deports, s helters, hands over, or receives one or more persons 
whether within the state or across national borders thereof; and employs force, 
threat, coercion, abduction, fraud, deceit, abuse of authority, misuse of influence, or 
exploitation of vulnerability with the intent of exploitation . 
B. Whoever gives or receives sums of money or benefits to obtain the consent of a 
person who has control over another person for the purpose of exploiting the latter.  
2. Shall the victim be a child or an incapacitated person, ev en if any of the cases set forth in 
Clause No. (1) of this Article are not provided, this shall be deemed a human trafficking . 
3.  The forms of exploitation set forth in this Article shall include all forms of sexual 
exploitation, exploitation of others fo r prostitution, forced labour, the removal of human 
organs or tissues, forced service, slavery, begging, or practices similar to slavery or 
servitude.  
  
Article (3) 
 Non -consideration of the Victim Consent  
1. The victim consent shall not be taken into cons ideration in any form of human 
trafficking, whenever using any if the means set forth in Clause No. (1) of article (2)  
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  4 
 herein.  
2. The consent of the victim father or guardian shall not be taken into consideration in 
cases where the victim is a child or an incapacitated person.  
  
Article (4) 
 Procedures of Investigations and Trial  
The following measures and procedures shall be taken at all stages of collecting evidence, 
investigation, and trial of human trafficking offence:  
1. Informing the victim and witness of the legal rights thereof in a language they 
understand, while providing them with the opportunity to express legal and social needs 
thereof . 
2. Presenting the victim to medical authorities to receive psychological or phy sical 
treatment if it becomes apparent that the victim is in need of that or based on request 
thereof. Moreover, the victim shall be admitted to a medical or psychological 
rehabilitation centre if necessary . 
3. The victim shall be lodged in an accommodatio n centre if the victim is found to need 
that . 
4. Providing the necessary security protection for the victim and witness whenever they are 
in a need thereof . 
5. Keeping the foreign victim or witness in the country if the investigation or trial requires 
this based on an order from the Public Prosecution or the Court, as the case may be . 
6. Appointing an attorney by the court for the victim based on the victim request to file a 
civil claim for compensation for the damage, and the state shall bear the fees ther eof as 
contained in the Penal Code . 
7. Considering the provision of educational assistance to the victim, especially children and 
persons with disabilities, if necessary . 
8. In all cases, the court shall take measures to ensure that victims and witnesses a re 
protected and not influenced in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the 
Protection of Witnesses and the like.  
   
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  5 
  
Crimes and Penalties  
Article (5) 
Without prejudice to any severer penalty set forth in any other law, the crimes set forth in 
this Decree -Law shall be punished with the penalties stipulated herein.  
  
Article (6) 
Penalty of Human Trafficking  
Whoever commits the human trafficking offence shall be punished with temporary 
imprisonment for a period of not less than (5) five years and a fine of not less than 
(1,000,000) million Dirhams.  
  
Article (7) 
Aggravating Circumstances in Human Trafficking O ffence  
The penalty shall be life imprisonment and a fine of not less than (5,000,000) five million 
Dirhams if the human trafficking offence is committed in the following cases:  
1. If the victim is a child, a disabled person, an incapacitated person, or a p regnant woman;  
2. If the offence is committed through death threat, serious harm, physical or psychological 
torture, or if the perpetrator is carrying a weapon . 
3. If the perpetrator founds or manages an organised criminal group or r is a member 
thereof, o r participates in its activities with knowledge of objectives thereof . 
4. If the perpetrator is the victim spouse, one of ascendants or descendants thereof, or has 
authority over the victim . 
5. If the perpetrator is a public servant or someone assigned to do a public service who 
exploits position thereof or the duties assigned thereto in committing the offence; 6. If 
the offence is a crime of a transnational nature . 
6. If the offence resulted in a terminal illness or a permanent disability for the victim . 
7. If the perpetrator has previously been convicted of a human trafficking offence; or  
8. If the victim dies.   
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  6 
   
Article (8) 
Failure to Report the Crime  
Whoever is aware of the commission of the human trafficking offence set forth herein and 
does not inform the Competent Authorities or Concerned Entities, shall be punished with 
imprisonment for a period ranging from one year to (5) five years and a fine of  not less than 
(50,000) fifty thousand Dirhams, or with one of these two penalties.  
  
Article (9) 
Coercion to Give False Testimony or Conceal Testimony  
Whoever, uses force or threats, offers a gift or benefit of any kind, or promises something of 
the same,  to induce another person to give false testimony or conceal a matter, or make 
statements or Incorrect information before any judicial authority, Competent Authorities, or 
Concerned Entities in procedures related to the commission of any of the crimes set forth 
herein, shall be punished with temporary imprisonment for a period of not less than (5) five 
years. The penalty shall be temporary imprisonment for a period of not less than (10) ten 
years if the act was committed by a public servant or a person assi gned to do a public service 
by exploiting the authority of position or capacity thereof.  
  
Article (10)   
Covering Up Human Trafficking Offence  
Whoever commits one of the following acts shall be punished with temporary 
imprisonment:  
1. Concealing one or mor e person who have participated in or committed the human 
trafficking offence with the intention of helping them to escape from justice, even 
though being aware thereof . 
2. Possessing, hiding, or disposing of items obtained from the human trafficking offenc e, or 
contributing to concealing features thereof.  
   
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  7 
  
Article (11)  
Hiding or destroying the victim documents  
Whoever seizes, conceals, possesses without legal justification, or destroys a travel 
document, its equivalent, a visa, a residence permit, or any other document Indicates the 
identity of a victim of a human trafficking offence shall be punished with imprisonment for a 
period of not less than one year and a fine of not less than (50,000) fifty thousand Dirhams, 
or with one of these two penalties.  
  
Article (12)  
Protection of Victims or Witness Information  
Whoever,  discloses or reveals the identity of the victim or witness in a human trafficking 
offence which may cause danger or harm thereto or helps the perpetrators to contact 
therewith, shall be punished with imprisonment for a period of not less than (6) six mont hs 
and a fine ranging from (150,000) one hundred and fifty thousand Dirhams to (500,000) 
five hundred thousand Dirhams, or with one of these two penalties.  
  
Article (13)  
Protection from being provided with incorrect information  
Whoever provides the victim  with misleading information about legal rights thereof with the 
intention of harming the victim or damaging his physical, psychological, or mental 
well -being, shall be punished with imprisonment for a period of not less than (6) six months 
and a fine of n ot less than (150,000) one hundred and fifty thousand Dirhams and not more 
than (500,000) five hundred thousand Dirhams, or with one of these two penalties.  
  
Article (14)  
Resisting Decree -Law Enforcement Authorities  
1. Whoever assaults one of the officers  responsible for implementing this Decree -Law 
during or because of the performance of duties thereof or resists the officer by force or  
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  8 
 by threatening to use force shall be punished by temporary imprisonment for a period of 
no less than (5) five years; and  
2. If one of the acts stipulated in Clause (1) of this Article is committed by more than one 
person or by a person overtly carrying a weapon, the penalty shall be temporary 
imprisonment for a period of no less than (10) ten years.  
  
Article (15)  
Legal Per sons  
1. A legal person shall be punished with a fine of not less than (2,000,000) two million 
Dirhams and not more than (10,000,000) ten million Dirhams, if representatives, 
directors, or agents thereof commit the human trafficking offence on behalf or in name 
thereof, without prejudice to the responsibility of the natural person affiliated thereto . 
2. When a conviction is issued, the court may rule to dissolve the legal person, permanently 
or temporarily close it, or close one of the branches thereof.  
  
Article (16)  
An attempt of an offence  
1. Whoever attempts to commit the crimes stipulated in Articles (6), (7), (9), and (11) of this 
Decree -Law shall be punished with the penalty of the complete crime . 
2. Whoever participates in committing the crimes set f orth in Articles (2), (6), (7), (9), (10), 
and (11) of this Decree -Law as a direct or causative accomplice shall be deemed the 
perpetrator thereof.  
  
Article (17)  
Incitement to commit crime  
Whoever publicly incites to commit the human trafficking offence, even if the incitement 
has no effect, shall be punished with temporary imprisonment.  
  
  
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  9 
  
Article (18)  
Complementary Penalties  
Without prejudice to the rights of bona fide third parties, the following shall be ruled in all 
cases:  
1. Confiscating tools of th e crime, funds and proceeds arising therefrom. Where it is not 
possible to rule on confiscation because it relates to the rights of bona fide third parties, 
the court shall decide a fine equivalent to the value thereof at the time of committing the 
crime . 
2. Deporting a foreigner who is convicted of one of the crimes stipulated herein . 
3. Closing the place in which the human trafficking offence was committed. It shall not be 
opened unless it is prepared for a legitimate p urpose, and after the approval of the Public 
Prosecution.  
  
Article (19)  
Exemption from Punishment  
1. Any perpetrator who takes the initiative to inform the Judicial or Competent Authorities 
or Concerned Entities of k nowledge thereof about the crime before being committed in a 
way leading to discover the crime before occurrence, arrest perpetrators, or prevent 
completion thereof, shall be exempted from the penalties set forth herein . 
2. If the perpetrator reports after  the crime has occurred, the perpetrator may be exempted 
from the penalty or the penalty may be reduced provided that the perpetrator enables 
the Competent Authorities or Concerned Entities during the investigation to arrest other 
perpetrators of the crime . The provisions of this clause may not be applied if the crime 
results in the death of the victim or causing a terminal illness or a permanent disability 
thereto.  
  
Article (20)  
Knowing the Age of the Victim   
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  10 
 The perpetrator shall be presumed to have knowl edge of the age of the victim in the crimes 
stipulated in this Decree -Law.  
  
Article (21)  
Non -Liability of the Victim  
The victim shall not be held criminally or civilly liable for any of the crimes set forth in this 
Decree -Law whenever it arises or is dire ctly related to be a victim of the human trafficking 
offence.  
  
Article (22)  
Exemption from Paying Civil Lawsuit Fees  
The victim of the human trafficking offence shall be exempted from the fees of the civil 
lawsuit filed thereby to claim compensation for t he damage arising from exploitation 
thereof in the same crime.  
  
Article (23)  
Victim Protection Mechanism  
The state shall ensure mechanisms to protect victims, and work to create appropriate 
conditions to assist them, provide them with health, psychologica l, educational and social 
care, rehabilitate them and integrate them into society within a framework of freedom and 
human dignity. In addition, it shall ensure their return to their countries quickly and safely if 
the person is a foreigner who is not resid ent in the state, in accordance with the rules and 
the procedures issued by a resolution of the Cabinet.  
  
Article (24)  
The National Committee to Combat Human Trafficking  
The National Committee to Combat Human Tr afficking shall be formed upon a resolution of 
the Cabinet based on a proposal by the Minister of Justice.  
   
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  11 
  
Article (25)  
Competencies of The National Committee to Combat Human Trafficking  
The Committee shall do the following:  
1. Develop a comprehensive n ational strategy to combat human trafficking, and prepare 
plans, programmes and mechanisms for the implementation thereof in coordination 
with the Competent Authorities and Concerned Entities in the state . 
2. Study and propose updating legislation and regu lations related to human trafficking 
issues in order to achieve the required protection for victims and witnesses in 
accordance with international requirements . 
3. Create a database that includes international legislation relevant to the human 
trafficking offence, means and methods of trafficking, and studies related thereto . 
4. Prepare reports on the measures taken by the state to combat human trafficking in 
coordination with the Competent Authorities and Concerned Entities in the state . 
5. Study internati onal, regional, and local reports related to the prevention of human 
trafficking and take the necessary actions and measures in this regard . 
6. Coordinate with the Competent Authorities and Concerned Entities to ensure the 
protection and support of human t rafficking victims, including a care and rehabilitation 
programme to help victims integrate into society . 
7. Raise awareness about the issues related to human trafficking . 
8. Hold conferences, seminars, publications, training, and other activiti es to achieve the 
goals of the committee . 
9. Participate with the Competent Authorities and Concerned Entities in international 
conferences and forums related to combating human trafficking, and convey the state 
point of view in international forums . 
10. Develop appropriate mechanisms for identifying victims in human trafficking cases . 
11. Any other competences entrusted thereto by the Cabinet.  
  
Article (26)  
Repeals   
Federal Decree -Law of 2023  on Combating Human Trafficking  12 
 1. Federal Law No. (51) of 2006 Concerning Combating Human Trafficking Offences shall 
be repealed . 
2. Any provision conflicting or contradicting with the provisions hereof shall be repealed.  
 
Article (27)  
Publication & Enforcement of the Decree -Law  
This Decre e-Law shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall enter into force as of the 
day following the date of its publication.  
 
  
 
 
Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
 
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace in Ab u Dhabi:  
On: Safar 27, 1445 H  
Corresponding to: September 13, 2023  
 
 