 
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  1 
 
       Page 1 FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995  
ON TRAFFIC  
We, Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahayan,                  President of the United Arab Emirates,  
− After taking cognizance of the provisional constitution, and  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 on the function s of ministries and powers of ministers, and 
laws amending it, and  
− Federal Law No. (9) of 1984 on Insurance Companies and Agents, and laws amending it, 
and  
− Federal Law No. (8) of 1986 on Determining the Axle Cargo for Vehicles which use 
paved roads bel onging to the State, and  
− Federal Law No. (3) of 1987, on Issuing Penal Law, and  
− The Federal Law No. (35) of 1992, on issuing Penal Procedures Law, and  
− According to the presentation made by the  Minister of the Interior, approved by the 
Council of Ministers and ratified by the Supreme Federal Council,  
We hereby issue the following decree :  
  
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS  
Article (1)  
In implementing the provisions of this law, the following words and exp ressions shall have 
the following meanings shown opposite to each one of them, unless the text otherwise 
requires:  
Licensing 
Authority  : The competent authority in the Emirate for issuance of the vehicles driving 
licenses, registration thereof and their tr affic on the public roads.  
Road  : Every path opened for the public traffic without the need for special  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  2 
 
       Page 2 permission and every public place that accommodates the vehicles traffic 
and allows the public to u se thereof whether by a permission or license 
from a competent authority or by other than that and whether using it with 
or without consideration.  
By a decision of the Minister of Interior, the private places which 
accommodates the vehicles traffic may be considered of the roads if the 
owner or in charge of them requests so.  
Road 
stream  : Side of the used road wherein the vehicles traffic is allowed.  
Road 
Shoulder  : Part of the road adjacent to the road stream of both sides and is intended 
for the emergen cy usages.  
Road 
Route  : Part of the linear parts to which the road stream is divided and its width 
allows the traffic of one row of the consecutive vehicles, whether it is has 
been defined or not by long marks on the road surface including the exit, 
lane and line.  
Licensed Line  : Every road determined for the public buses traffic.  
Traffic 
Signs  : 
Everything displayed in the road of signs and boards to alert the road users 
for controlling the traffic movement and among that  the indicative signs 
for the traffic directions, inhabited places and the distances between them, 
maximum limits of speed and priorities, parking places, and such signs 
may be in the form of a monument or posts or painted signs on the road, including the traffic signals or any warning or other controls relating to the 
traffic organization.  
Sidewalk  : A part of the road adjacent to the road stream of both sides and is intended  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  3 
 
       Page 3 for the pedestrians traffic, and the islands located in the middle of the road 
are considered as the sidewalk.  
The 
Vehicle  : Mechanical machine or ordinary bicycle or motorcycle or any other device 
running on the road with a mechanical power or with any other means 
including the tractor.  
Private Car  : The car which is intended for personal usage to transport the passengers 
and their personal supplies only.  
Taxi  : The car which is intended for transport of passengers in consideration of a pay and its accommodation shall not exceed fourteen persons.  
Tractor  : 
A vehicle of self drive, designed for pulling or pushing trailers or tools or 
machines.  
Trailer  : A vehicle which is designed for connection with a mechanical vehicle or 
tractor.  
Semi 
Trailer  : A trailer without a front axis, and is connected in a manner so that a large part of its weight and the weight of its load is carried by the trailer or the 
mechanical vehicle.  
Motorcycle  : A vehicle of two wheels or more and equipped with a mechanical eng ine, 
and is intended to transport persons or things.  
Bicycle  : 
A vehicle of two wheels or more and not equipped with a mechanical 
engine, and runs with a driven power by its rider and is intended to 
transport persons.  
Wagon  : Every vehicle driven or pulled by the human or animal power and used to transport passengers or goods.  
Stop  : 
The stop of the vehicle for a period of time and requires the necessity of 
riding or getting out of the persons or loading or unloading the goods.   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  4 
 
       Page 4 Parking  : Staying in a place for a long time and other than the stop cases.  
High Light  : The vehicle's light which is used in lighting the road for long distance 
ahead the vehicle.  
Dim Light  : The vehicle's light which is used in lighting the road for short distan ce so 
that not to make dazzling for the other vehicles drivers.  
Position 
Lights  : The headlights and rear lights of the vehicle which alert its existence and show its width from the front and rear sides.  
Tariff  : A consideration for transport of the passengers in the public buses and the taxis.  
 
Article (2)  
The provisions of this law shall apply to all types of motor -cars and drivers, as well as to 
pedestrians and animals on public roads.  
  
Article (3)  
For the purpose of this law, motor vehicles shall be classified, and any decisions made in accordance with the provisions contained herein shall be as follows:  
1. Light Vehicle:  
A vehicle prepared for transport of persons or goods whose maximum net weight is limited 
to (2.5) two and a half tons. This group includes saloon cars and motorcycles which are 
designed or prepared for transportation of goods, regardless of their weight.  
This group is divided into two types:  private and public.  
 
  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  5 
 
       Page 5 2. Heavy Vehicle:  
A vehicle prepared for transport of goods whose net weight is over (2.5) two and a half tons. 
This group is classified into two types : private and public.  
3. Bus:  
A vehicle designed to carry over 14 persons.  
This group is divided into two types :  
a) Light  buses, whose maximum capacity is limited to twenty -six passengers excluding 
the driver.  
b) Heavy buses, whose maximum capacity is over twenty -six passengers excluding the 
driver. All above mentioned types of buses are classified into private and public buses. 
4. Tractors and Mechanical Equipment :  
Vehicles designed for purposes other than transportation of persons and goods.  
These vehicles are divided into three categories :  
a) Equipment running on wheels regardless of their weight.  
b) Light vehicles running on wheels, whose maximum net weight is limited to seven 
and a half tons.  
c) Heavy duty vehicles running on wheels, whose maximum weight is over seven and a 
half tons.  
5. Handicapped carriers :  
Vehicles whose weight is limited to 250 kg. and whic h are designed or specially made for the 
sole use of handicapped persons who are suffering from a physical disability. Motorcars that 
have been mechanically modified later on to suit the purpose of such use shall not be 
included in this category.  
6. Motorc ycles   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  6 
 
       Page 6   
PART ONE  
 RULES OF TRAFFIC  
CHAPTER ONE  
GENERAL PROVISIONS  
Article (4)  
All users of the road must obey the directions of the policeman in his official uniform, and 
shall abide by the traffic signs, rules and disciplines laid down for regulation of traffic.  
  
Article (5)  
All motor car drivers shall observe the following :  
1. He shall give his personal details, and the details of his motorcar to any policeman present at the scene of an accident in which he is involved, causing damage to a human 
bein g or an animal or property owned by a third party, and shall offer all possible 
assistance to provide the necessary aid to those hurt. He shall inform the nearest 
police -station of such an accident within a maximum period of six hours unless he gives 
a reasonable excuse for the delay, if no police man is present at the scene of the accident.  
2. He shall slow down markedly at any pedestrian crossing which is not controlled by a 
traffic sign or policeman, or upon changing the direction of his route, and shall stop 
completely until all pedestrians have crossed the road.  
3. He shall allow enough time for pedestrians to cross the road wherever it is possible for them to do so at the street crossing controlled by a traffic sign or policeman, and shall 
not start dr iving until the street crossing becomes clear of such pedestrians.  
4. He shall not park his motor -car in places where parking is forbidden, and if his stopping  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  7 
 
       Page 7 on the road becomes an inevitable necessity, he must keep to the right side of the road, 
and kee p away from road intersections, road crossings, slopes and turns. He must also 
take all necessary precautions to ensure that he drives safely on the road, he shall not 
leave the engine running during his absence, and shall turn on signal lights during the 
period between sunset and sunrise to the degree necessary for other persons to know of 
its existence.  
5. He shall not drive a vehicle which makes a loud noise, and shall not use the horn inside 
towns except to prevent danger or accidents.  
  
Article (6)  
In the absence of a police -man or a trafficsign to control traffic at road -crossings or 
intersections, the right of way shall be given to vehicles coming from the main road. When all roads or where there is a roundabout, priority shall be given to the vehicle  coming from 
the left side.  
In all cases, right of way shall be granted in the following order:  
1. Official motorcades.  
2. Fire trucks while on duty.  
3. Vehicles carrying sick and wounded persons, while at work.  
4. Military vehicles moving in columns.  
5. Police cars using alarm sirens and revolving signal lights.  
  
Article (7)  
The road may not be used in a way that leads to hinder the vehicles, persons and animals traffic thereon. The pedestrians may not cross the road stream except from the places 
allocat ed for this purpose, and they are prohibited from parking in the road stream. In all  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  8 
 
       Page 8 cases, the pedestrians may not cross the roads to which the prescribed speed does not 
exceed eighty kilometers per hour.  
  
Article (8)  
No one may place any substance on th e road which would cause damage to it or to its users, 
or cause obstruction to the free movement of traffic thereon.  
  
Article (9)  
No one may place any traffic -sign on the road, without the approval of the competent 
authority, and in accordance with the pr ovisions of the executive regulation of this law.  
  
CHAPTER TWO  
OBLIGATIONS OF DRIVERS ON THE ROAD  
Article (10)  
While on the road, each driver must comply with the following :  
1. He shall keep his car as close as possible to the right side of the road, according to the direction of the traffic.  
2. He must ensure that the road ahead of him is clear and visible before he overtakes a vehicle, a person, an animal or an obstacle. He must indicate his intention to overtake 
and give warning to t he persons whom he intends to overtake by using turn signals and 
making sure that they have responded to his signal.  
3. He shall keep to the extreme right side of the road, in order to grant right of way to other 
traffic.  
4. He shall take the necessary pre cautions before he turns onto a side road, a curve, a  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  9 
 
       Page 9 crossroad or an intersection. He shall give the necessary signal to change course, and 
make sure that he can turn without endangering other users of the road.  
5. He shall not overtake a vehicle going in  the same direction except from the left side, 
unless the vehicle in front of him moves to the left in order to take another route, 
provided that he gives the other driver a necessary signal ensuring that the road is wide 
enough for him to pass without any  risk.  
6. He shall not drive a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, drugs or the like.  
7. He shall not drive it he is under stress that affects his ability to control the vehicle.  
8. He shall slow down, or stop if necessary, to enable the passage of a v ehicle in front of 
him which is signalling to turn right or left.  
9. He shall not expose pedestrians to danger, and shall stop when necessary to prevent any 
damage or injury to any user of the road.  
10. He shall not exceed the speed limit of the road, taking into consideration the conditions of the place, the weather, the vehicle and other safety requirements.  
11. Subject to the provisions of Federal Law No. (8) of 1986 referred to, he shall not cause damage to the surface of the pavement.  
12. He shall not drive the vehicle in reverse unless he makes sure that the road is clear of 
traffic, and he must judge the distance required for safe turning.  
13. He shall abide by the signals of the traffic policeman.  
14. He shall use the proper t urn signal on the vehicle for turning left or right.  
15. He shall turn on the lights of the vehicle between sunset and sunrise and whenever 
necessary, so that the body of the vehicle may be seen by other drivers.  
  
  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  10 
 
       Page 10  
CHAPTER THREE  
OBLIGATIONS OF DRIVERS OF PASSENGER CARS AND DRIVERS OF HEAVY 
DUTY VEHICLES  
Article (11)  
Subject to the provisions of the preceding articles, the driver of a passenger car shall observe 
the following:  
1. He shall not carry more passengers than the number allowed by the Licensing Authority.  
2. He shall prevent passengers from extending their heads or hands out the windows, and 
shall put a notice to this effect in a prominent place on the bus.  
3. He shall turn on the interior lights of the vehicle between sunset and sunrise and whenev er necessary.  
4. He shall not stop the vehicle to let passengers get on or off except in places where the 
law permits.  
5. He shall not talk with passengers while the bus is in motion, nor allow them to stand or 
sit next to him.  
6. He shall not refuse to take any passenger who is ready to pay the passenger fare, unless all seats of the vehicle are fully occupied.  
7. He shall post a prominent sign to show that the vehicle is for hire and showing the number of passengers allowed to be taken on board.  
8. He shall put in a prominent place or carry with him, a copy of the passenger fares, in 
order to show it to passengers whenever it is required.  
9. He shall check his vehicle immediately after each trip to search for anything that 
passenge rs might have left, and shall turn in whatever he finds within (24) hours to the  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  11 
 
       Page 11 nearest police station, in return for a receipt.  
  
Article (12)  
Subject to the preceding articles, the driver of a heavy duty car shall observe the following :  
1. He shall not  exceed the load permitted by the Licensing Authority.  
2. He shall not carry with him passengers except for the owner of the vehicle and loading 
and off loading labourers, within the limits provided for in article (45) under this law.  
3. He shall not load the vehicle in a manner that endangers the lives of the public or causes obstruction to traffic.  
4. He shall put a red light at the end of the load protruding from the vehicle at night time, 
and a red ribbon during the daytime.  
5. He shall display in print ing the net weight of the vehicle, the weight of the load he is 
permitted to carry, and its gross weight in a legible and visible manner on the body of the 
vehicle.  
6. Truck drivers shall put a cover to prevent sands and materials carried in trucks from 
falling off.  
  
PART TWO  
DRIVING LICENCES AND DRIVING LESSONS  
CHAPTER ONE  
DRIVING LICENCES  
Article (13)  
It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor -car on the road unless he obtains a valid 
driving licence from the Licensing Authority which entitles h im to drive the type of vehicle  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  12 
 
       Page 12 which he is currently driving. This licence shall be called hereinafter a driving licence.  
It is also unlawful for any one to allow another person to drive his own car unless he holds a 
valid driving licence.  
  
Article (14)  
The following shall be excluded from applying the provisions of this chapter:  
1. Armed forces staff, upon their driving of military vehicles, provided that they should hold 
permits for that issued by their military authorities.  
2. Drivers of the mechanical vehicles which are registered in a foreign country, which are 
excluded from the provisions of registration and licensing stated herein, upon their driving of the military vehicles, provided that they should hold permits for that issued by 
the competent au thorities in that country or international valid driving licenses allowing 
to drive such vehicles within the limits of the period which is authorized to them to drive 
such vehicles and within the limits of the period which is authorized to them to stay in 
the Country, whether for transit or visit or for specified mission.  
3. Holders of the valid international or foreign driving licenses and who are authorized to stay in the Country for other than residence, pursuant to the controls determined by the 
Ministe r of Interior in this regard.  
 
Article (15)  
The following conditions must be met for issuance the of a driving licence:  
1. Under the provisions of article (3) of this law, a person who applies for a driving licence must be 17 years of age if the licence is  to be used for vehicular categories listed in 
Clause 5 or 6; 18 years for categories listed in Clause (1); 20 years for categories listed in Clauses (2) and (4); and 21 for those listed in Clause (3).   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  13 
 
       Page 13 2. The person who applies for a driving licence must present a medical report from a 
governmental doctor, or any doctor approved by the licensing authority, showing his medical fitness to drive a vehicle. If the person concerned wears eye glasses or contact 
lenses for correction of eyesight, he shall be considered medically fit.  
3. The applicant shall pass the driving licence provided for in the regulations and decisions 
issued for enforcement of this law.  
  
Article (16)  
The licensing authority shall have the right to grant a driving license to the holder of a valid 
driving license issued by a foreign country, without effecting what is provided for in clause 
(3) of article (15) if the license is issued by one of the excluded countries by a decision of the 
Minis ter of Interior, and pursuant to the conditions determined by such decision.  
  
Article (17)  
The licensing authority shall issue a driving licence after completion of all necessary 
procedures, in conformity with the terms and conditions prescribed in this law, and in accordance with the regulations and decisions giving effect thereto.  
The licensing authority may determine the period of the validity of the driving licence,  and it 
may, upon expiration of the licence validity, ask the holder of the licence to produce proof of 
his physical fitness before its renewal is approved.  
With the exception of persons applying for licences under Clause (5) of article (3) of this 
law, licences granted to persons aged seventeen to twenty -one shall be issued on a 
temporary basis, and for one year renewable.  
A copy may be issued in replacement of a lost or damaged driving licence.  
   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  14 
 
       Page 14 Article (18)  
The licensing authority shall have the right t o suspend, cancel or refuse to renew any driving 
licence if it is proved that a licence -holder has lost the capacity or physical fitness to drive the 
vehicle for which a licence has been issued to him.  
  
Article (19)  
Car clubs in the country shall be entitled to issue international traffic books (trip tickets), and 
international driving licences valid for use in a number of countries. The regulation issued to 
this effect shall set forth the procedures to be observed in this regard.  
  
CHAPTER TWO  
DRIVING LESSONS  
Article (20)  
No person may learn to drive except in accordance with a permit issued by the licensing authority, valid for three renewable months.  
  
Article (21)  
No person may teach others to drive motor -cars unles s he is authorized to do so by the 
licensing authority, and possesses a driving licence duly issued to him. Such a person must ensure that he complies with the provisions of this law and decisions issued in execution 
thereof in the course of teaching, and shall not allow a trainee to drive a vehicle on any road 
in populated areas unless he is satisfied that a trainee is able to control the vehicle.  
  
  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  15 
 
       Page 15 Article (22)  
Permission to open driving schools may be granted only to n ational citizens, and after 
obtaining a licence to this effect from the concerned authority.  
  
Article (23)  
The holder of a driving trainee permit may not drive any motor -car carrying passengers 
other than his instructor, who shall sit next to him. The trainee shall carry the permit with 
him while driving.  
The licensing authority shall lay down the rules, conditions and other provisions for 
teaching/learning of motor -car driving.  
 
PART THREE  
VEHICLES TEXT AND REGISTRATION  
CHAPTER ONE  
GENERAL PROVISIONS  
Article (24)  
It shall not be lawful for anyone to drive or allow others to drive any vehicle on a public road 
unless it is registered and licensed in accordance with the provisions of this law and in 
compliance with the regulations and decisions giving effect th ereto.  
  
Article (25)  
The following vehicles shall be excluded from applying the provisions of article (24):  
1. Vehicles of the State's President and Rulers of the Emirates.  
2. The vehicles which are registered at the armed forces and bear their numbers.   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  16 
 
       Page 16 3. The vehicles of the transit people, visitors and foreign tourists, on the terms determined 
by the executive regulation of this law.  
4. Passenger and goods cars which are registered in any foreign country and which are 
allowed to visit the Country on the  terms and conditions prescribed in the regulations 
and decisions issued in implementation of the provisions of this law.  
5. The vehicles that bear commercial numbers on the terms determined by the executive 
regulation of this law.  
  
Article (26)  
As a cond ition for the registration or renewal of a licence of any vehicle in accordance with 
the provisions of this law, it shall be at least covered by third party insurance.  
Whoever sustains a physical injury resulting from the use of the car shall make a direct  claim 
against the insurer for damages.  
  
Article (27)  
Upon application for registration of a motor vehicle, the owner must submit the appropriate 
application form with the necessary documents showing his personal particulars, and 
ensuring that his vehicle  complies with safety conditions provided for in the regulations and 
decisions issued for the enforcement of this law.  
The registration of a vehicle shall be valid for the period set forth in the regulations and 
decisions giving effect to this law. These r egulations and decisions shall determine the terms 
and conditions for renewal of registration, the information which must be entered in the 
registration book, and the cases where the licensing authority must be notified of any 
change in the data and specif ications concerning the owner, the vehicle, its export, damage 
of the vehicle, or loss or damage of the registration book. Said regulations and decisions  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  17 
 
       Page 17 shall determine the procedures for registration of vehicles belonging to the President's 
Personal Office and the Emiri Office in each Emirate.  
  
Article (28)  
A person may apply for the registration of a private vehicle in his name to the licensing 
authority in the Emirate where he resides or works. However, persons other than nationals 
may not apply for re gistration of public vehicles, nor may they apply for the registration of 
private trucks unless the applicant proves that the nature of his profession or work justifies the possession of such a vehicle.  
  
Article (29)  
The licensing authority may issue a tr ade licence to a motorcar dealer or to a manufacturer 
who produces such vehicles. Under this licence, he may test drive any vehicle after its production, or upon importing or exhibiting the vehicle for sale. However, in this case, the 
vehicle must carry tw o plate numbers under trial.  
The executive regulation of this law shall determine the terms and conditions for use and 
renewal of plates and licences referred to in this Article.  
  
Article (30)  
The licensing authority may examine or t est drive any vehicle at any time it considers 
appropriate for protection of the public interest.  
The owner of a vehicle shall have the right to complain against the result of a test to said authority within ten days, and the decision so made shall be final.  
  
  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  18 
 
       Page 18 Article (31) 
With the exception of vehicles exempted – pursuant to the provisions of this Law – from 
the registration provisions, and with the exception of the President’s and UAE Rulers’  vehi-
cles, it shall not be permissible to drive any mechanical vehicle unless two number plates 
bearing its registration number are affixed to it in a visible place, one in the front and anoth-er in the back, provided that one rear plate is sufficient for t railers and semi- trailers. The re-
quirements and specifications of the said plates shall be determined pursuant to the deci-
sions issued for the implementation of this Law . 
  
Article (32)  
The licensing authority must be notified of any disposition concerning the transfer of the 
registration of any vehicle within fourteen days by the parties to the disposition. The owner 
of the licence shall remain liable for obligations resulting from the use of the vehicle until 
the licence is transferred to the other party.  
  
Article (33)  
Without prejudice to the penalties provided for in this law, the licensing authority may suspend, cancel or refuse the renewal of the licence of a vehicle according to the terms and conditions prescribed in the executive regulation of this law.  
  
 
 
 
 
  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  19 
 
       Page 19 CHAPTER TWO  
TECHNICAL CONDITIONS FOR VEHICLES AND FOR THE TEST, REPAIR, AND 
USE OF VEHICLES  
First: Technical Conditions 
Article (34)  
Vehicles may not be used on the road unless they are in good working condition and 
equipped with at least the following :  
1. A durable steering wheel with easy and flexible movement.  
2. Two effective brake- controls independent from each other, or one effec tive 
brake -system that can be applied in two separate ways, one for stopping the vehicle 
immediately when the other fails to work.  
3. A suitable horn for giving audible alarms when necessary.  
4. A rear view mirror fitted in a way that helps the driver to w atch the road from the rear.  
5. A windscreen made of transparent material that neither changes the shape of visible 
objects nor yields sharp fragments when broken.  
6. A windshield wiper that automatically moves when necessary.  
7. A safetybelt in accordance  with the conditions of use described in the executive 
regulation.  
8. An anti- pollution system and a muffler.  
9. A speedometer.  
10. An air -inflated spare tire in good condition for use.  
11. A fire extinguisher suitable for use in buses, trucks and tankers designed for carrying 
bulk fuels.  
Compliance with the requirements and conditions provided for in the regulations and  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  20 
 
       Page 20 decisions made for enforcement of this law may apply to other vehicles.  
However the devices mentioned in Clauses (5), (6) (7) and (10) of this article are not 
required in motorcycles.  
  
Article (35)  
Vehicles shall be fitted with traffic lights which show the width of the vehicle. Lights shall 
not be concealed or partly hidden by any portion of the vehicle or any load thereof. It shall 
also b e fitted with traffic indicators which show the direction in which it is moving.  
Trailers shall be fitted with rear lamps and side lamps to show the length of the trailer.  
Motor cycles shall be equipped with head lights to illuminate the road at night time , and 
with a tail lamp. If a motor -cycle includes a side cab, it shall be fitted with two side lamps at 
the front and at the rear.  
Bicycles shall be fitted with a head light at the front and with a red lamp and a red reflector 
at the rear.  
The cab shall be  provided with a light which is bright enough to warn other users of the road 
of its existence at night -time.  
Conditions and specifications of all lights referred to in this article shall be defined in the regulations and decisions issued for enforcement o f this law.  
  
Article (36)  
The head lights of a vehicle shall not be switched on unnecessarily when a vehicle is 
stationary.  
It is forbidden to use a red lamp at the front of a vehicle or a white lamp which sends out a direct beam at the rear.   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  21 
 
       Page 21 It is strict ly forbidden to use flood lights on a vehicle except for the purpose of spotting parts 
of a vehicle which are being repaired.  
  
Second : Testing of Motorcars 
Article (37)  
Motorcars of all kinds shall be technically tested by the licensing authority in accordance 
with the provisions of this chapter, except for motorcars which are exempted from 
registration.  
The body or the colour of a motorcar may not be changed without prio r permission from the 
licensing authority.  
Following any substantial modification in the engine or body of a motor vehicle, the owner 
of a motor vehicle shall apply for a test to be made by the licensing authority.  
  
Article (38)  
The vehicles shall be insp ected technically upon submission of their registration and 
licensing applications and renewal of the licenses at the time and place determined by the licensing authority. The inspection, by the consent of the authority, may be made at any 
other place determined by the license applicant, on the terms determined by the executive 
regulation of this law.  
The new make vehicles shall be exempted on the terms determined by the executive 
regulation of this law. The vehicle owner shall have the right to grieve against the result of 
the technical inspection by an application to be submitted to the licensing authority within 
ten days, and its decision about that shall be final.  
  
  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  22 
 
       Page 22 Article (39)  
After issuance of a license for any motor vehicle, the licensing authority m ay check the 
vehicle, at any time to ensure protection of the public interest. The owner of the vehicle shall 
carry out the instructions issued by said authority pursuant to the result of the mechanical 
test, and shall bring the vehicle for rechecking othe rwise, the licensing authority may 
withdraw or cancel the vehicle's registration.  
  
Article (40)  
If the licensing authority is convinced from the examiners' report that a licensed vehicle is 
not fit for driving, it may give a notice to the owner of the vehicle that he should not use it; 
said notice must include the deficiencies and defects of the vehicle. In this case the owner of 
the vehicle shall not use it at all until the vehicle is brought back by him for rechecking, and 
all s uch deficiencies and defects have been set right.  
The licensing authority shall undertake to re -examine the vehicle and allow its owner to use 
it if required repairs have been completed. However, if the vehicle is brought for checking 
more than once for co mpletion of the repairs, the owner shall only be liable to pay the test 
fees for one test only .  
  
Third : Repair of Vehicles  
Article (41)  
A person or a garage may not carry out the repair of any motor vehicle involved in an accident without the approval of the licensing authority.  
  
  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  23 
 
       Page 23 Article (42)  
No motor vehicle or any part thereof, or any mechanical equipment may be parked on the 
road for the purpose of repair unless the repair of the vehicle is carried ou t in a short time 
and does not cause disruption of traffic.  
  
CHAPTER THREE  
SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING HIRED VEHICLES AND TRUCKS  
Article (43)  
It is strictly forbidden to give or take on rent private vehicles which are not licensed for the purpose of hirin g. It is also forbidden to use such motor vehicles in carrying passengers or 
cargo for any consideration whatsoever.  
  
Article (44)  
No one shall engage in the business of renting cars without obtaining permission from the licensing authority. A bicycle may  also not be rented to any one under the age of fifteen 
years.  
  
Article (45)  
Subject to the provisions contained in article (12) of this law, no truck or lorry may carry any passengers other those employed by the owner of the vehicle, or laborers required  for 
loading or off -loading the cargo. However in all cases, a truck -driver shall not carry more 
laborers than those needed for the job, as specifically stated in the executive regulation of 
this law.  
   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  24 
 
       Page 24 Article (46)  
Provided that no risk arises from carrying passengers in hired trucks, and that enough seats 
are available for all passengers, the licensing authority may give permission for any public 
truck to carry passengers against payment of a fare. However, in all cases it is not allowed for 
light vehicle s to carry more than fifteen passengers and for heavy duty vehicles to carry 
more thirty passengers.  
  
Article (47)  
Public buses which are not provided with a space for luggage shall not carry anything other 
than hand -held items. Such luggage may not be ke pt near doors or in any place which is 
likely to cause trouble to passengers.  
  
Article (48)  
Passenger vehicles or trucks should not be overloaded with persons or packages in a manner that causes danger to other passengers, or causes disruption to traffic whether the 
vehicle is loaded or unloaded, subject to the provisions contained in the executive 
regulation of this law.  
  
PART FOUR  
PUNISHMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR TRAFFIC OFFENCES  
CHAPTER ONE  
 PUNISHMENTS  
Article (49)  
Anyone committing any of the following de eds shall be punished by prison and by a fine not  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  25 
 
       Page 25 less than twenty thousand dirhams or by one of the two punishments:  
1. Fabrication or imitation of a number plate or usage of fabricated or imitated number 
plate.  
2. Distortion or efface or change of a numb er plate data along with using the same in what 
is intended for.  
3. Usage or allowance of third parties to use a number plate while he is aware of its 
distortion or efface or change.  
4. Movement of a number plate from a vehicle to another vehicle without t he consent of 
the licensing authority.  
5. Failing to stop without a valid reason at a traffic accident to which he is a party which 
resulted in injuries to persons.  
6. Driving of a vehicle or proceeding with driving thereof on the ro ad while he is under the 
influence of the alcoholics or drugs and alike.  
  
Article (50)  
Anyone driving a vehicle on the road in case being suspended from driving by the order of 
the court or by the order of the licensing authority shall be punished by impr isonment for a 
period not more than three months and by a fine not less than five thousand dirhams or by 
one of the two punishments.  
Anyone driving a vehicle on the road without a driving license or with a license that does not 
allow him to drive the same type of the vehicle shall be punished by imprisonment for a 
period not more than three months and by a fine not less than five thousand dirhams or by 
one of the two punishments.   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  26 
 
       Page 26   
Article (51)  
Punishment by imprisonment for a period not exceeding three mon ths and by a fine not 
exceeding Dhs. 6000 (six thousand dirhams) or by either of these two penalties shall be 
inflicted upon any one who drives a vehicle on the road without holding a driving licence or 
with a licence issued for driving a different type of  vehicle.  
  
Article (52)  
Anyone commits any of the following deeds shall be punished by imprisonment for a period 
not more than one year and by a fine not less than five thousand dirhams or by one of the 
two punishments:  
1. Lending or borrowing or renting or hiring a number plate on the contrary to what the 
provisions of this law stipulate.  
2. The default of the owner of a vehicle which caused a crime or accident in provision of information that he was able to provide and that would detect the circumstances  of the 
crime or the accident or the causing person and would facilitate arresting him.  
  
Article (53)  
This Article has been repealed by Article 2 of Federal Law 12 of 2007 . 
  
Article (54)  
This Article has been repealed by Article 2 of Federal Law 12 of 2007 . 
  
Article (55)  
This Article has been repealed by Article 2 of Federal Law 12 of 2007 .  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  27 
 
       Page 27   
Article (56)  
Anyone who refuses to give his name or address or gives incorrect data to one of the police 
staff who wears his uniform or presents his official card, when he is asked to do so once he is 
caught committing a crime that is punishable under the provisions of this law and the 
regulations and decisions issued in implementation thereof, shall be punished by 
imprisonment for a period not more than three months and by a fine not less than five hundred dirhams and not more than two thousand dirhams or by one of the two 
punishments.  
  
Article (57)  
Without prejudice to the punishments provided for in this chapter, anyone who commits a 
violation to any other provision of the provisions of this law and the regulations and 
decisions issued in implementation thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for a period 
not more than one month and by a fine no t less than two hundred dirhams and not more 
than five hundred dirhams or by one of the two punishments.  
It shall be considered as a strict action for re -committing a crime that is punishable under the 
provisions and the regulations and decisions issued in implementation thereof within one 
year from the date of committing the crime.  
  
Article (58)  
Where the court is satisfied that a person is guilty of a crime related to the driving of a 
motorcar, it may :  
1. Suspend his driving licence for a certain period and deny him the right to obtain a 
renewed licence for a further period after expiration of the suspended licence.   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  28 
 
       Page 28 2. Decide to deprive him of the right to obtain a driving licence for a certain period if he  has 
no licence under the provisions of this law.  
An order to suspend a licence or take away the right to obtain it shall invalidate the licence 
and the right to obtain another licence during the period of suspension of or deprivation of 
the licence. He sh all be considered a defaulter of the provisions of this law, whoever applies 
to obtain a licence contrary to the provisions of this article, and the licence obtained by such 
contravention shall be considered invalid.  
Nevertheless, whoever is denied the rig ht to obtain a driving licence may apply to the same 
court that has convicted him, for cancellation of such a denial, after the lapse of six months 
from the date of conviction.  
  
CHAPTER TWO  
PROCEDURES FOR TRAFFIC OFFENCES  
Article (59)  
A policeman shall hav e the right to arrest any driver of a vehicle, if he is caught in the act of 
committing any of the following offences :  
1. Causing death or injury to another person by reason of driving the vehicle.  
2. Driving a vehicle carelessly or in a manner that exposes the life of the public to danger.  
3. Driving a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol or any another drug or any substance that causes loss of control over the vehicle.  
4. Refusing to give his name or his address or giving a false name or address in the event of the occurrence of any of the crimes referred to in this article.  
5. Attempting to escape from the scene of an accident in which he has caused injury to the 
life of any person or in the e vent of receiving an order from policeman to stop his  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  29 
 
       Page 29 vehicle.  
The provisions of the penal proceedings law shall apply to this case.  
 
Article (60)  
A policeman shall have the right to seize any motor vehicle in any of the following cases:  
1. If it is fou nd mechanically unfit for plying on the road, if it fails to comply with the 
requirements of this law concerning license plates or mufflers of if it is driven without 
brakes or without sufficient lights at night time. In any of such cases, the vehicle shall be 
prevented from being used until the defects are repaired. Where it needs to be taken to a garage for repair, it shall be towed by a trailer, and it may not be driven until after it 
becomes fully operational.  
2. If a driver has been previously convicte d of driving without a valid driving licence, and if 
the vehicle is spotted again on the road without showing such a licence. In this case the 
vehicle shall not be returned to its owner except after producing said driving licence.  
3. If a vehicle is driven  on the road by a person who is not in possession of a driving licence 
or permit, unless it is exempted from such a requirement. In this case, the vehicle shall 
only be released to a driver holding a valid driving licence and who is legally authorized 
to receive said vehicle.  
4. If it is used on the road after making substantial changes in the chassis or in the body of 
the vehicle or in the colour without informing the licensing authority of such changes, as 
specifically stated in this law.  
5. If it is involved in a crime resulting from a traffic accident, in which case the vehicle has to be brought as an evidence to the court.  
   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  30 
 
       Page 30 Article (61)  
1. The Minister of Interior shall determine the cases in which the license or the vehicle may 
be detaine d. 
2. Excluding the punishments provided for herein, the fines prescribed in the violation 
schedules issued by a decision of the Minister of Interior shall be collected, provided that 
they should not exceed three thousand dirhams, and if the violator refuses that, the 
papers shall be referred to the Public Prosecution, and in case of conviction the judged 
fine should not be less than half of the prescribed value.  
  
PART FIVE  
FEES FOR LEGAL ACTIONS AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAW  
CHAPTER ONE 
FEES  
Article (62)  
Fees for actions provided for in the law and its executive regulation shall be fixed by a 
decision of the Council of Ministers, at a maximum rate of Dhs. 3000 (three thousand). Fees 
shall be received by the Federal Traffic Departments and deposited in the public treasury.  
  
Article (63)  
The following vehicles shall be exempted from the registration and licensing fees:  
1. The vehicles which are owned by the federal government, local governments and their departments.  
2. The vehicles which are used for the agricultural purposes and which are not used as 
means of transport on the road.   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  31 
 
       Page 31 3. The vehicles of the special need people.  
4. One vehicle for the holders of the social affairs cards registered in his Emirate.  
5. Vehicles of charity foundations.  
 
Article (64)  
Vehicles that have not been used for a period of over six months shall be exempted from 
licence renewal fees during such a period, provided that the owner has notified the licensing 
authority thereof and delivered the licence or plate numbers of the vehicle to them.  
  
Article (65)  
If the registration of a vehicle has been canceled for failure to renew the registration w ithin 
one year, the vehicle shall not be re -registered until after payment of the registration fees in 
arrears.  
  
CHAPTER TWO  
ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAW  
Article (66)  
The Minister of Interior shall determine the forms used to report traffic offences that occur in 
violation of the rules of the present law.  
  
Article (67)  
The licensing authority shall establish the application forms which will be submitted for 
obtaining licences and pe rmits issued in accordance with the provisions of the present law. 
A decision on the forms of such licences and permits shall be made by the Minister of  
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  32 
 
       Page 32 Interior.  
  
Article (68)  
The licensing authority shall set forth the rules and procedures which it cons iders necessary 
for maintaining traffic discipline, reducing the rate of traffic offences, and insuring a better 
standard of driving. The traffic rules shall apply to pedestrians, drivers, vehicles and animals.  
  
 
Article (69)  
The Minister of Interior shall issue the regulations and decisions required for enforcement of the present law. Until the issuance of such regulations and decisions, the existing rules and 
decisions shall continue to remain in force.  
  
Article (70)  
Valid licences, passes and permits shall remain in force until the expiration of their validity periods. Renewal and replacement of such licences shall be governed by the provisions of the present law.  
  
Article (71)  
Any provision in breach of or in contravention with the provisions of the present law shall 
be considered null and void.  
  
Article (72)  
This law shall be published in the Official Gazette, and come into force three months after 
the date of its publication.   
FEDERAL LAW NO. (21) OF 1995 ON TRAFFIC  33 
 
       Page 33  
Zayed Bin Sultan Al Nahyan  
President of the U.A.E.  
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace,  
Dated : 27 Jamad Al Akher, 1416 A.H.  
Corresponding to 20/11/1995.  
 