Cabinet Resolution No. (19) of 2023  Concerning the Space Resources Regulations  1 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (19) of 2023  
Concerning the Space Resources Regulations  
The Cabinet  
− Having reviewed the Constitution;  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Competence of Ministries and Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (12) of 2019 Regulating the Space Sector;  
− Federal Decree No. (85) of 2000 Regarding the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Field of Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other 
Celestial Bodies, and the Two  Agreements related to these activities;  
− Based on the proposal of His Highness, Chairman of the UAE Space Agency, and the approval of the Cabinet,  
Has resolved:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In application of the provisions herein, the following words and exp ressions shall have the 
meanings ascribed thereto, unless the context requires otherwise:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates.  
Agency  : UAE Space Agency.  
Board of Directors  : Board of Directors of the UAE Space Agency.  
Chairman of the Board of Directors  : 
Chairma n of the Board of Directors of the UAE Space 
Agency.  
Law  : Federal Law No. (12) of 2019 Regulating the Space Sector.  
Identified Area  : Any area eighty kilometres or more above the mean sea 
level.  Cabinet Resolution No. (19) of 2023  Concerning the Space Resources Regulations  2 
 Operator  : A person engaged in Space Activities, Space Supporting 
Flights, High Altitude Activities, Space Data management 
and distribution activities, or any other activities related to 
the Space Sector subject to this Law.  
Authorisation Regulations  : Regulations related to Authorisation of Space Activities and 
other activities related to the Space Sector, applicable in the 
Agency.  
Space Activities  : Activities that target the Identified Area, including its 
discovery, making an impact thereon, using, or utilising it, 
in accordance with the provisions of article (4) of t his Law.  
Space Resources  : Any non -living resources present in outer space, including 
minerals and water.  
Space Resources Activities  : Activities related to the exploration, exploitation and use of 
Space Resources, whether for commercial, scientific or 
other  purposes, and include extracting, recovering, refining, 
processing, benefiting from, owning, purchasing, selling, 
trading, transporting or storing Space Resources, as well as 
activities related to logistics, performed in the specified 
area, such as transp orting, storing, or supplying Space 
Resources.  
  
Article (2)  
Scope of Application  
The provisions of this resolution apply to Space Resources Activities carried out by persons holding the nationality of the State, companies whose headquarters are in the Stat e, or foreign 
companies with a branch in the State.  
 Cabinet Resolution No. (19) of 2023  Concerning the Space Resources Regulations  3 
 Article (3)  
Compliance with the conditions of the Space Activity Authorisation  
Operators wishing to carry out Space Resources Activities shall comply with the provisions of this 
resolution in addition to  the provisions of the Authorisation regulations.  
 
Article (4)  
Application Conditions 
1. Operators who practice (or apply for Authorisation to practice Space Resources Activities) 
shall comply with the following conditions before beginning to practice thes e activities:  
a. The Operator may not carry out any activities within the scope of Space Resources 
Activities that would constitute a danger or threaten the State ability to comply with any 
international legal obligations.  
b. The Agency shall be provided w ith all required information, including technical 
information and risk assessments, as required by the Agency.  
c. The evidence proving that the Operator has taken all necessary measures to prevent or 
mitigate the following shall be submitted:  
1. Risks that  threaten the safety of people or property.  
2. Damage that may be caused to people or property.  
3. Harmful effects on the Earth environment.  
4. Harmful pollution in outer space, including celestial bodies.  
5. Space Debris Production.  
6. Harmful interferenc e with ongoing Space Activities, including activities of other 
Space Resources.  
2. The Operator shall, upon receipt of the Authorisation and commencement of Space Resources Activities, keep the Agency informed of the latest developments regarding the progr ess of Space Resources Activities and comply with all instructions issued by the Agency 
in the event of an emergency or the possibility of physical risks arising from Space Resources Activities.  Cabinet Resolution No. (19) of 2023  Concerning the Space Resources Regulations  4 
 3. The Agency may request any additional information or evalu ations necessary (including 
financial and technical evaluations) before granting the Authorisation.  
4. The Operator (or Applicant, as the case may be) shall comply with all applicable regulations 
issued by the Cabinet and the Agency, including those relating to liability coverage.  
 
Article (5)  
Special considerations by the Agency  
The Agency shall take into account the following before granting Authorisation:  
1. The international legal obligations imposed on the State and any other international 
requirements  agreed to by the State.  
2. Any potential adverse effects on the Earth environment or harmful pollution in the 
Identified Area, including celestial bodies, taking into account any international 
guidelines, policies or other instruments related to planetary  protection.  
3. The rights of other States related to access to all stations, facilities, equipment, and spacecraft on the surface of the moon and other celestial bodies, in accordance with the 
international obligations of the State, taking into account the safety of operations, 
avoiding interference in operations, and protecting intellectual property rights and 
commercially sensitive data.  
4. The State obligation to consult with any affected State when it has reasons to believe that Space Resources Activ ities may lead to obstruction of the activities of another State in the 
Identified Area, including activities of that State that may fall within the meaning of Space 
Resources Activities.  
5. Exchanging scientific information resulting from Space Resources Activities with the international scientific community, to the maximum extent possible and practical, on the 
basis of good faith, and in accordance with the national laws in force in the State.  
6. Any other considerations that the Agency deems appropriate and relevant, including the 
extent of any priority rights over Space Resources.  
 Cabinet Resolution No. (19) of 2023  Concerning the Space Resources Regulations  5 
 Article (6)  
Space Resources Database  
1. The Agency shall maintain information on the purposes, locations, and duration of activities 
of Space Resources declared by the Agency in a special national database, and based on this 
data. The Agency has the right to determine priority rights at the national level.  
2. The Agency shall maintain a national database dedicated to the results of Space Resources 
Activities, based on the infor mation provided by the Operator pursuant to article (4) of this 
resolution. The Agency may share this data in accordance with the national laws in force in the State.  
 
Article (7)  
Property rights over Space Resources  
1. Without prejudice to the international obligations of the State, Space Resources may be 
explored, exploited or used by conducting Space Resources Activities. The Operator also has 
the right to exercise ownership rights, recognised under national laws ap plicable in the State, 
over any Space Resources that the Operator has explored, exploited or used through its Space Resources Activities, as authorised by the Agency.  
2. Property rights include, in particular, the right to own, buy, sell, trade, transfer, store, use or 
dispose of Space Resources extracted in the context of authorised Space Resources Activities, and any Space Activities aimed at providing logistical services in this regard in accordance 
with this resolution, the law, and all other applicable  regulations of the Agency and any other 
laws and regulations applicable within the State.  
 
 
  
 
 Cabinet Resolution No. (19) of 2023  Concerning the Space Resources Regulations  6 
 Article (8)  
Mandatory Notice to the Agency  
1. The Operator shall immediately inform the Agency of the following:  
a. Any significant changes to the mission plan and its characteristics.  
b. Any incident or accident related to the Operator or any other entities involved in Space 
Resources Activities, including any subcontractors.  
c. Any damage or risk of damage that may befall persons or property.  
d. Any harmful or pote ntially harmful effects on the Earth environment.  
e. Any harmful or potential pollution to the Identified Area, including celestial bodies.  
f. Any production of Space Debris or the risk of its formation resulting from the authorised activity of the Operato r. 
g. Any safety measures in the area associated with authorised Space Resources Activities.  
h. Any unintended interference or damage to a space object belonging to another State, or 
unintended interference or damage to sites on the moon or any other celes tial bodies of 
historical importance.  
2. The Operator shall submit an annual report on the progress and results of Space Resources Activities.  
3. At the end of the mission during which Space Resources Activities are carried out, the 
Operator shall inform the Agency regarding the termination of authorised Space Resources 
Activities and submit a report on the results of the activities indicating the status of the area 
in which Space Resources Activities were carried out, including the presence of any space 
objects or Parts of it.  
 
Article (9)  
Executive Resolutions  
The Board of Directors shall issue the necessary Resolutions for implementation of the provisions 
of this Resolution.  
 Cabinet Resolution No. (19) of 2023  Concerning the Space Resources Regulations  7 
 Article (10)  
Publication and Entry into Force  
This Resolution shall be published  in the Official Gazette and shall be enforced after (60) sixty 
days as of the date of its publication.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum  
Prime Minister  
 
 
Issued by Us:  
Dated: March 13, 2023  
Corresponding to: 21/Shaaban/1444 H  