Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 1 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (45) of 2021  
Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 
We, Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,                   President of the United Arab Emirates,  
   Having reviewed the Constitution; and  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 concerning the Competences of Ministries and the Powers of 
Ministers, and any amendments thereto; and  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (3) of 2003 on Regulating the Telecommunications Sector, as 
amended; and  
− Federal Law No. (6) of 2010 on Credit Information, as amended; and  
− Federal Law No. (14) of 2016 on Administrative Violations and Penalties in the Federal 
Government; and  
− Federal Law No. (2) of 2019 on the Use of Information and Communication Technology 
in the Health Fields; and  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (14) of 2018 on the Central Bank and Regulation of Financial 
Institutions and Activities, and any amendments thereof; and  
− Federal Decree by Law No. (44) of 2021 on the Establishment of the UAE Data Office; and  
− Pursuant to what was presented by the Minister of Cabinet Affairs, and the approval of 
the Council of Ministers,  
have promulgated the following Decree by Law:  
 
 Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 2 
 Article (1) 
 Definitions  
In application of the provisions of this Decree by Law, the following words and phrases shall have 
the meanings assigned to each of them, unless the context otherwise requires:  
State  : The United Arab Emirates  
Office  
 : The UAE Data Bureau establish ed under the aforementioned 
Federal Decree by Law No. (44) of 2021  
Data  
 : An organized or unorganized set of data, facts , concepts, 
instructions, observations or measurements in the form of 
numbers, letters, words, symbols, images, videos, signs, sounds, 
maps or any other form. It is interpreted, exchanged or processed 
by individuals or computers. It includes information wh erever it 
appears herein.  
Personal Data  
 : Any data related to a specific natural person or related to a natural 
person that can be identified directly or indirectly by linking the 
data, through the use of identification elements such as his/her 
name, voice, image, identification number, his/her electronic 
identifier, his/her geographical location, or by one or more 
physical, physiological, economic, cultural or social characteristics. 
It includes Sensitive Personal Data and Biometric Data  
Sensitive Personal 
Data  
 : Any data which directly or indirectly reveals a natural person's 
family, ethnic origin, political or philosophical opinions, religious 
beliefs, criminal record, biometric data, or any data relating to such Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 3 
 person's health and physical, ps ychological, mental, genetic or 
sexual condition, including information related to the provision of 
healthcare services to him/her which reveals his/her health status  
Biometric Data  
 : Personal Data resulting from processing using a specific 
technology  related to the physical, physiological or behavioral 
characteristics of the Data Subject, which allows the identification 
or confirmation of the unique identification of the Data Subject, 
such as facial images or fingerprints  
Data Subject  : A Natural  Person who is the subject of Personal Data  
Establishment  
 : Any individual company or establishment located inside or outside 
the State, including companies wholly owned by the federal or the 
local government, or in which they are shareholders  
Controller  
 : An establishment or natural person that has Personal  Data, and by 
virtue of its activity, determines whether individually or jointly 
with other persons or establishments, the method and criteria for 
processing such Personal Data and the purpose of processing it  
Processor  
 : An establishment or Natural P erson that processes Personal Data 
on behalf of the Controller. It processes it under their supervision 
and in accordance with their instructions  
Data Protection Officer  
 : Any Natural or Legal Person appointed by the Controller or 
Processor, that unde rtakes the tasks of ascertaining the extent to 
which the entity to which it belongs complies with the controls, 
requirements, procedures and rules for processing Personal Data Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 4 
 Protection stipulated herein. It also ensures the integrity of systems 
and proce dures in order to achieve compliance with provisions of 
the Decree by Law  
Processing  
 : Any operation or set of operations performed on Personal Data 
using any electronic means, including processing and other means. 
This processing includes collecting, storing, recording, organizing, 
adapting, modifying, circulating, altering, retrieving, e xchanging, 
sharing, using, characterizing, disclosing Personal Data by 
broadcasting, transmitting, distributing, making available, 
coordinating, merging, restricting, blocking, erasing or destroying it 
or creating forms thereof  
Automated Processing  
 : Processing which is carried out using an electronic program or 
system which operates in an automated and automatic manner 
either completely independently without any human intervention 
or partially with limited human supervision and intervention  
Persona l Data Security  
 : A set of technical and organizational measures, procedures and 
processes specified in accordance with provisions of this Decree by 
Law which maintain the protection of privacy, confidentiality, 
integrity and availability of Personal Dat a 
Pseudonymisation  
 : Processing performed on Personal Data in such a way which, after 
the completion of processing, makes it not possible to associate 
and attribute such data to the Data Subject without the use of 
additional information, provided that  such additional information Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 5 
 is kept independently and securely. In accordance with the 
technical and organizational measures and procedures specified 
under provisions of this Decree by Law, it shall ensure that 
Personal Data is not linked to a specific na tural person or that 
he/she can be identified by using it  
Anonymization  
 : Processing which is performed on Personal Data in a way which 
leads to the anonymity of the Data Subject, not linking and 
attributing such data to him/her and the inability to identify 
him/her in any way whatsoever  
Data Breach  
 : Breaching informatio n security and Personal Data through illegal 
or unauthorized access. This includes copying, sending, 
distributing, exchanging, transferring, circulating or processing it in 
a way which leads to disclosure of such data to third parties, or 
destroying or mod ifying it during storage, transfer and processing  
Profiling  
 :  A form of automated processing which involves the use of 
Personal Data to assess certain personality aspects associated with 
the Data Subject, including analyzing or predicting aspects rela ted 
to his/her financial performance or condition, health, personal 
preferences, interests, behavior, location, movements or reliability  
Cross -Border 
Processing  : Dissemination, use, display, transmission, reception, retrieval, 
sharing or processing o f Personal Data outside the State  
Consent  
 : The consent whereby the Data Subject authorizes a third party to 
process his/her Personal Data, provided that this consent Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 6 
 indicates, in a specific, clear and unambiguous manner, that 
he/she accepts the processing of his/her Personal Data through a 
clear  positive statement or action  
 
Article (2) 
Scope of Application of the Decree by Law  
1. Provisions of this Decree by Law shall apply to the processing of all or part of the Personal 
Data by means of electronic systems which operate automatically, or by  other means, by the 
following:  
a. Each Data Subject residing in the State or having a place of business in it.  
b. Each Controller or Processor residing in the State and carrying out the activities of 
processing Personal Data of Data Subjects inside an d outside the State.  
c. Each Controller or Processor residing outside the State and carrying out the activities of 
processing Personal Data of Data Subjects inside the State.  
2. Provisions of this Decree by Law shall not apply to the following:  
a. Government Data  
b. Governmental entities which control or process Personal Data.  
c. Personal Data held by the security and judicial authorities  
d. A Data Subject who processes hi s/her data for personal purposes.  
e. Personal Health Data that has legislation regulating its protection and processing.  
f. Personal banking and credit data and information th at have legislation regulating their 
protection and processing.  
g. Companies and establishments located in free zones in the Country and have special Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 7 
 legislations regarding Personal Data protection.  
  
Article (3) 
Bureau's Power of Exemption  
Without prejudi ce to any other competencies prescribes for the Bureau under any other 
legislation, the Bureau may exempt some establishments that do not process a large volume of 
Personal Data from part, or all of the requirements of the personal data protection provisio ns 
stipulated in this Decree by Law, in accordance with the standards and controls set by the 
Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (4) 
Cases of Processing Personal Data without the Consent of its Owner  
It is prohibited to process Personal D ata without the consent of its owner. The following cases 
shall be excluded from such prohibition:  
1. If the processing is necessary to protect public interest.  
2. If the processing is related to Person al Data which has become available and known to all by 
an act of the Data Subject.  
3. If the processing is necessary to initiate any procedures of legal claim or defense of rights or 
is related to judicial or security procedures.  
4. If the processing i s necessary for purposes of occupational or preventive medicine in order 
to assess the employees' ability of to work, performing medical diagnosis, providing health 
or social care, treatment or health insurance services, managing health or social care syst ems 
and services in accordance with the legislation in force in the State.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 8 
 5. If the processing is necessary to protect public health, including protection from existing 
diseases and epidemics, or for the purposes of ensuring the safety and quality of he althcare, 
medicines, drugs and medical devices, in accordance with the legislation in force in the 
State.  
6. If the processing is necessary for archival purposes or for scientific, historical and statistical 
studies in accordance with the legislation in force in the State.  
7. If the processing is necessary to protect the interests of the Data Subject.  
8. If the processing is necessary for the purposes of the Controller or Data Subject carrying out 
their obligations and exercising their legally establi shed rights in the field of employment, 
social security or laws concerned with social protection, to the extent permitted by such 
Laws.  
9. If the processing is necessary to perform a contract to which the Data Subject is a party, or to 
take measures at the request of the Data Subject with the aim of concluding, amending or 
terminating a contract.  
10. If the processing is necessary to fulfil specific obligations stipulated in other laws in force in 
the State for the Controller.  
11. Any other cases set out in the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (5) 
Personal Data Processing Control s 
Personal Data shall be processed according to the following controls:  
1. Processing shall be carried out in a fair, transparent and lawful manner.  
2. Personal Data shall be collected for a specific and clear purpose. It shall not be processed at Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 9 
 any later time in a manner incompatible with such purpose. However, it may be processed if 
the purpose is similar or close to the purpose for which this data is  collected.  
3. Personal Data shall be sufficient and limited to what is necessary in accordance with the 
purpose for which the processing is carried out.  
4. Personal Data shall be accurate and correct and shall be updated whenever necessary.  
5. The n ecessary measures shall be taken to ensure that incorrect Personal Data is deleted or 
corrected.  
6. Personal Data shall be kept securely, including protecting it from any violation, penetration, 
or illegal or unauthorized processing through the developme nt and use of appropriate 
technical and organizational measures and procedures in accordance with the laws and 
legislation in force in this regard.  
7. Personal Data shall not be kept after the purpose of its processing has been exhausted. It 
may be kept if the identity of the Data Subject has been concealed using the 
"Anonymization Mechanism"  
8. Any other controls set out in the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (6)  
Terms of Consent to Data Processing  
1. To be considered, the consent of the Data Subject to the processing of date shall require the 
following:  
a. The Controller shall be able to prove the consent of the Data Subject in the event that 
the pr ocessing of Personal Data is based on the consent of the Data Subject.  
b. The Consent shall be prepared in a clear, simple, unambiguous and easily accessible Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 10 
 manner, whether in writing or electronically.  
c. The Consent shall include the Data Subject's right to withdraw it easily.  
2. The Data Subject may, at any time, withdraw their consent to the processing of Personal 
Data. Such withdrawal of consent shall not affect the legality of the processing based on the 
given consent before withdrawing it.  
  
Article (7) 
The Controller's General Obligations  
The Controller shall abide by the following:  
1. Take appropriate technical and organizational measures to implement the necessary 
standards to protect and secure Personal Data in order to preserve its confi dentiality and 
privacy, and to ensure that it is not breached, destroyed, altered or tampered with, taking 
into account the nature, scope and purposes of processing and the possibility of risks to the 
confidentiality and privacy of the Data Subject's Perso nal Data.  
2. Apply the appropriate measures, whether while determining the means of processing or 
while processing, in order to comply with the provisions of this Decree by Law, including the 
controls stipulated in article (5). These measures include the  Pseudonymisation 
Mechanism.  
3. Apply appropriate technical and organizational measures with respect to automatic settings, 
to ensure that the processing of Personal Data is limited to the purpose for which it is 
intended. Such obligation shall apply to the volume and type of Personal Data collected, the 
type of processing which will be carried out, the period of storage and accessibility of such 
data.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 11 
 4. Maintain a special record for Personal Data, provided that such record shall include the data 
of bo th the Controller and the Data Protection Officer, a description of the categories of 
Personal Data, details of the persons authorized to access the Personal Data, processing 
times, limitations and scope, the mechanism for erasing, modifying or processing Personal 
Data, the purpose of processing, any data related to the cross -border movement and 
processing of such data, and the technical and organizational measures related to 
information security and processing The Controller shall submit such record to the  Bureau 
whenever requested to do so.  
5. Appoint the Processor which has sufficient guarantees to implement technical and 
organizational measures in a manner which ensures that the processing meets the 
processing requirements, rules and controls stipulated in this Decree by Law, its Executive 
Reg ulations and the decisions issued to implement the same.  
6. Provide the Bureau, pursuant to a decision made by the competent judicial authority, with 
any information it requests in implementation of its powers stipulated in this Decree by Law 
and its Exe cutive Regulations.  
7. Any other obligations set out in the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (8)  
The Processor's General Obligations  
The Processor shall abide by the following:  
1. Carry out the processing in accordance with the ins tructions of the Controller and contracts 
and agreements concluded between them, which specify in particular the scope, subject, 
purpose, nature and type of Personal Data, and the category of the Data Subject.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 12 
 2. Apply the appropriate technical and organizational procedures and measures to protect 
Personal Data at the design stage, whether during the identification of the means of 
processing or during the processing, taking into account the cost of implementing such  
procedures and the nature, scope and purposes of processing.  
3. Carry out the processing according to the purpose and the period specified for it. If the 
processing exceeds the specified period, the Processor shall so notify the Controller to 
authorize it to extend such period or give appropriate instructions.  
4. Erase data after the expiry of the processing period or upon handing it over to the Controller.  
5. Avoid doing anything which would disclose Personal Data or results of processing, except in  
cases authorized by the law.  
6. Protect and secure data processing, the electronic media and devices used in processing and 
the Personal Data they contain.  
7. Maintain a special record of Personal Data which is processed on behalf of the Controller, 
provided that such record includes the data of the Controller, the Processor and the Data 
Protection Officer and a description of the categories of Personal Data they have, data of the 
persons authorized to access Personal Data, processing times, restrictio ns and scope, the 
mechanism of erasing, modifying or processing Personal Data, the purpose of processing, 
any data related to the cross -border movement and processing of such data and the 
technical and organizational measures related to information securit y and processing 
operations, provided that the Processor submits such record to the Bureau whenever it is 
requested to do so.  
8. Provide all means to prove its commitment to the implementation of provisions of this 
Decree by Law when so requested by the Controller or the Bureau.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 13 
 9. Carry out processing in accordance with rules, conditions and controls specified in this 
Decree by Law and its Executive Regulations, or pursuant to which instructions are issued 
by the Bureau.  
10. In the event that more than one Processor participates in processing data, the processing 
shall be carried out in accordance with a written contract or agreement in which they clearly 
define their obligations, responsibilities and roles with regard to processing, otherwise they 
shall be deemed jointly responsi ble for the obligations and responsibilities contained in this 
Decree by Law and its Executive Regulations.  
11. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the procedures, controls, 
conditions, and technical standards related to such o bligations.  
  
Article (9) 
Reporting Personal Data Breach  
1. In addition to the obligations of the Controller stipulated in this Decree by Law, the 
Controller shall, at the time it becomes aware of the existence of any breach or violation of 
Personal Data of the Data Subject that would prejudice the privacy, confidentiality and 
security of data, notify the Bureau of such breach or violation and the investigation rights 
within the period and in accordance with the measures and requirements set by the 
Executi ve Regulations of this Decree by Law, provided that the reporting is accompanied by 
the following data and documents:  
a. A description of the nature of the breach or violation, its form, causes, approximate 
number and records.  
b. Details of the appointed Data Protection Officer.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 14 
 c. Potential and expected effects of the breach or violation.  
d. Corrective measures and actions taken or suggested by it to confront such violation and 
reduce its negative impacts.  
e. Documents of th e violation and corrective actions taken by it.  
f. Any other requirements required by the Bureau  
2. In all cases, the Controller shall notify the Data Subject in the event that the violation or 
breach would prejudice the privacy and confidentiality of the security of his/her Personal 
Data within the period and in accordance with the measures and requirements set by the 
Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law. It shall inform him/her of the measures taken 
by it.  
3. If the Processor becomes aware of  any breach of Personal Data, it shall notify the Controller 
of such breach as soon as it becomes aware of the same. the Controller shall in turn inform 
the Bureau in accordance with Clause (1) of this Article.  
4. After receiving the notification from the Controller, the Bureau shall verify the reasons for 
the violation to ensure the integrity of the security measures taken, and impose the 
administrative penalties referred to in article (26) of this Decree by Law in  the event that a 
violation of its provisions and decisions issued in implementation of it is proven against the 
Controller or the Processor.  
  
Article (10) 
Appointing Data Protection Officer  
1. The Controller and Processor shall appoint a Data Protection  Officer, who has sufficient 
skills and knowledge of the Personal Data Protection Law, in any of the following cases:  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 15 
 a. If processing would cause a high -level risk to the confidentiality and privacy of the 
Personal Data of the Data Subject as a result o f adopting new technologies or with 
regard to the volume of data.  
b. If processing would involve a systematic and comprehensive assessment of Sensitive 
Personal Data, including Profiling and Automated Processing.  
c. If processing would be carried out o n a large volume of Sensitive Personal Data.  
2. The Data Protection Officer may be an employer of the Controller or the Processor or 
authorized by them, whether inside or outside the State.  
3. The Controller or the Processor shall specify the contact details of the Data Protection 
Officer and notify the Bureau of the same.  
4. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law shall specify the types of technologies and 
criteria for determining th e volume of data required in accordance with this Article.  
  
Article (11) 
Roles of Data Protection Officer  
1. The Data Protection Officer shall ensure the extent of compliance of the Controller or the 
Processor with the application of provisions of this D ecree by Law, its Executive Regulations 
and instructions issued by the Bureau. The Data Protection Officer shall, in particular, 
undertake the following tasks and powers:  
b. Verifying the quality and correctness of the procedures in place at the Controll er and the 
Processor.  
b. Receiving requests and complaints related to Personal Data in accordance with 
provisions of this Decree -Law and its Executive Regulations.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 16 
 c. Providing t echnical advice on evaluation procedures and periodic examination of 
personal data protection systems and intrusion prevention systems at the Controller and 
Processor, documenting the results of such evaluation and providing appropriate 
recommendations in this regard, including risk assessment procedures.  
d. Acting as a link between the Controller or the Processor, as the case may be, and the 
Bureau regarding the application of personal data processing provisions stipulated in 
this Decree by Law.  
e. Any  other tasks or powers which are determined in accordance with the Executive 
Regulations of this Decree by Law.  
2. The Data Protection Officer shall maintain the confidentiality of information and data it 
receives in implementation of its duties and powe rs in accordance with provisions of this 
Decree by Law and its Executive Regulations and in accordance with the legislations in force 
in the State.  
 
Article (12) 
Duties of the controller and the processor towards the Data Protection Officer  
1. The Controller and the Processor shall provide all means to ensure that the Data Protection 
Officer performs the duties and tasks assigned to it as stipulated in article (11) of this Decree 
by Law in the required manner. In particular, this shall include t he following:  
a. Ensure that the Data Protection Officer is appropriately and timely involved in all 
matters relating to the protection of Personal Data.  
b. Ensure that the Data Protection Officer is provided with all the necessary resources and 
the ne cessary support to carry out the tasks assigned to it.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 17 
 c. Not to terminate the Data Protection Officer services or impose any disciplinary penalty 
for a reason related to the performance of its duties in accordance with the provisions of 
this Decree by L aw. 
d. Ensure that the Data Protection Officer is not charged with duties which contradict its 
duties under this Law.  
2. The Data Subject may communicate directly with the Data Protection Officer about all 
matters relating to his/ her personal data pro cessing to enable him/ her to exercise his/ her 
rights in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (13) 
Right to Receive Information  
1. The Data Subject has the right, by submitting a request to the Controller without any 
consideration, to obtain the following information:  
a. The types of its Personal Data that are being processed.  
b. Purposes of processing.  
c. Decisions made based on automated processing, including profiling.  
d. The targeted sectors or establishments with whom its personal data will be shared from 
inside and outside the State.  
e. Controls and standards for the period of storage and preservation of his/ her personal 
data.  
f. Procedures for correcting, erasing or limiting processing and objection to his/ her 
personal data.  
g. Protection measures for cross -border processing carried out in accordance with Articles Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 18 
 (22) and (23) of this By -Law.  
h. Actions to be taken in the event of a breach or misuse of his/ her Personal Data, 
especially if the breach or misuse has a direct and  serious threat to the privacy and 
confidentiality of his/her Personal Data.  
i. How to submit complaints to the Bureau.  
2. In all cases, the Controller shall, before starting the processing, provide the Data Subject with 
the information stipulated in p aragraphs (b), (d) and (g) of Paragraph (1) of this Article.  
3. The Controller may reject the Data Subject's request to obtain the information mentioned in 
Paragraph (1) of this Article, if the following is established:  
a. The request is not related to the information referred to in Paragraph (1) of this Article, 
or it is excessively repetitive.  
b. The request conflicts with judicial procedures or investigations conducted by competent 
authorities.  
c. The request may nega tively affect the efforts of the Controller to protect information 
security.  
d. The request affects the privacy and confidentiality of Personal Data of third parties.  
  
Article (14) 
 Right to Request Transfer of Personal Data  
1. The Data Subject shall ha ve the right to receive his/her personal data that has been provided 
to the Controller for processing, in an orderly and machine -readable manner, whenever the 
processing is based on the consent of the Data Subject, or it is necessary for the 
implementation  of a contractual obligation, and it is carried out by automated means.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 19 
 2. The Data Subject shall have the right to request the transfer of its Personal data to another 
Controller whenever it is technically feasible.  
  
Article (15) 
Right to correction or erasure of Personal Data  
1. The Data Subject shall have the right to reques t the correction of his/her inaccurate Personal 
data, or request to complete the data held by the Controller without undue delay  
2. Without prejudice to the legislations in force in the State and what is required for the public 
interest, the Data Subject  shall have the right to request erasure of his/ her Personal Data 
held by the Controller in any of the following cases:  
a. His/her Personal Data is no longer necessary for the purposes for which it is collected or 
processed.  
b. Withdrawal of the conse nt of Data Subject on which the processing is based.  
c. The Data Subject's objection to the processing, or the absence of legitimate reasons for 
the Controller to continue the processing.  
d. The Personal Data is processed in violation of the provisions of this Decree by Law and 
the applicable legislations, and the erasure process is necessa ry to comply with the 
legislations and approved standards in force in this regard.  
3. As an exception to what is stated in Paragraph (2) of this Article, the Data Subject is not 
entitled to request erasure of his/ her Personal Data held by the Controller  in the following 
cases:  
a. If the request is related to the erasure of his/her Personal Data related to public health in 
private facilities.  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 20 
 b. If the request affects the investigation procedures and claiming and defending rights.  
c. If the request contradicts other legislations to which the Controller is subject.  
d. Any other cases determined by the Executive Regulation of this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (16)  
Right to Restrict Processing  
1. The Data Subject shall have the right to oblige the Controller to restrict and stop processing 
in any of the following cases:  
a. The Data Subject's objection to the accuracy of the Personal Data, in which case the 
processing shall be restricted for a specific period to allow the Controller to verify the 
data accuracy.  
b. The Data Subject's objection to the processing of his/ her P ersonal Data in violation of 
the agreed -upon purposes.  
c. The processing is carried out in violation of the provisions of this Decree by Law and the 
applicable legislations.  
2. The Data Subject shall have the right to request the Controller to continue  to keep his/ her 
Personal Data after the completion of the processing purposes when such data is necessary 
to complete procedures related to claiming or defending rights and lawsuits.  
3. Notwithstanding what is stated in Paragraph (1) of this Article, the Controller may proceed 
with the processing of the Personal Data of the Data Subject without his/ her consent in any 
of the following cases:  
a. If the processing is limited to storing Pe rsonal Data.  
b. If the processing is necessary to pursue any of the procedures related to claiming or Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 21 
 defending rights and lawsuits or related to judicial proceedings.  
c. If the processing is necessary to protect the rights of third parties.  
d. If th e processing is necessary to protect the public interest.  
4. In all cases, the Controller, if it lifts the restriction stipulated in this Article, shall notify the 
Data Subject of the same.  
  
Article (17) 
 Right to Stop Processing  
The Data Subject shall have the right to object to the processing of his/her Personal Data and stop 
it in any of the following cases:  
1. If the processing is intended for the purposes of direct marketing, including pr ofiling related 
to direct marketing.  
2. If the processing is intended for the purposes of conducting statistical surveys, unless the 
processing is necessary to serve the public interest.  
3. If the processing is carried out in violation of article (5) o f this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (18) 
Right to Processing and Automated Processing  
1. The Data Subject shall have the right to object to any decisions resulting from automated 
processing, including profiling, particularly those decisions which have legal i mpact on or 
adversely affect the Data Subject.  
2. Notwithstanding Paragraph 1 of this Art icle, the Data Subject may not object to the 
decisions resulting from automated processing in the following cases:  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 22 
 a. If the automated processing is agreed upon under the contract made between the Data 
Subject and the Controller.  
b. If the automated pr ocessing is required under other legislations which are applicable in 
the State.  
c. If the Data Subject gives prior consent to the automated processing as set out in Article 
(6) of this Decree by Law.  
3. The Controller shall adopt appropriate measures to protect the privacy and confidentiality of 
the Data Subject's Personal Data in the cases referred to in Paragraph 2 of this article and 
shall not cause any prejudice to the Data Subject's rights.  
4. The Controller shall include the human element in re viewing automated processing 
decisions at the request of the Data Subject.  
  
Article (19) 
 Contacting the Controller  
The Controller shall provide clear and appropriate ways for the Data Subject to contact th e 
Controller to request any of the rights set forth in this Decree by Law.  
 
Article (20) 
 Personal Data Security  
1. The Controller and the Processor shall develop and take appropriate technical and 
regulatory measures to ensure the highest standard of inf ormation security that is suitable 
for the risks related to data processing in accordance with the best international practices 
and standards. This shall include the following:  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 23 
 a. Encryption of Personal Data and the application of Pseudonymisation.  
b. Applying measures which ensure the continuous confidentiality, safety, accuracy and 
flexibility of data processing systems and services.  
c. Applying measures which ensure timely retrieval of and access to Personal Data in case 
of any actual or technical failure.  
d. Applying measures which ensure a seamless testing and evaluation of the effectiveness 
of the technical and regulatory measures t o ensure the security of processing.  
2. When evaluating the information security level as set out in Paragraph1 of this Article, the 
following shall be observed:  
a. Data processing risks, including damage, loss, accidental or illegal change and disclosure 
of or access to the Personal Data, whether being transferred, stored or processing.  
b. The costs of data processing, and its nature, scope and purposes, in additio n to potential 
risks impacting the confidentiality and privacy of the Data Subject's Personal Data.  
 
Article (21)  
Assessment of the Impact of Personal Data Protection  
1. Taking into account the nature, scope and purposes of data processing, the Controlle r shall, 
before carrying out the processing, evaluate the impact of the proposed processing 
operations on the protection of Personal Data, when using any of the modern technologies 
that would pose a high risk to the privacy and confidentiality of the Data Subject's Personal 
Data.  
2. The assessment of the impact provided for in Paragraph (1) of this Article shall be required 
in the following cases:  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 24 
 a. If the processing includes a s ystematic and comprehensive assessment of the personal 
aspects of the Data Subject, using automated processing, including profiling, having 
legal consequences or serious impact on the Data Subject.  
b. If processing would be carried out on a large volume of Sensitive Personal Data.  
3. The assessment stipulated in Paragraph (1) of this Article shall include, at a minimum, the 
following:  
a. Clear and systematic explanation of the suggested processing operations for the 
protection of Personal Data and the  purpose of processing.  
b. Evaluation of how necessary the processing operations are and how they are suitable for 
the purpose of processing.  
c. Evaluation of potential risks related to the privacy and confidentiality of the Data 
Subject's Personal Dat a. 
d. The suggested procedures and measures aimed at reducing the potential risks related to 
the protection of Personal Data.  
4. The Controller may carry out one evaluation of a set of processing operations which have 
similar nature and risks.  
5. The Controller shall coordinate with the Data Protection Officer upon evaluating the impact 
of the protection of Personal Data.  
6. The  Bureau shall prepare a list of processing operation types which do not require 
evaluation of the impact of the protection of Personal Data. The Bureau shall publish such 
list on its website.  
7. The Controller shall review the evaluation results on a reg ular basis to make sure that the 
processing is being carried out in accordance with the evaluation in case the processing risks Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 25 
 level changes.  
  
Article (22) 
Cross -Border Transfer and Sharing of Personal Data for Processing Purposes if a 
Proper Protection Le vel is Available  
Personal Data may be transferred to outside of the State in the following cases approved by the 
Bureau:  
1. The State or Province t o which the Personal Data is transferred shall have legislations 
addressing Personal Data Protection. This includes most significant provisions, measures, 
controls, stipulations and rules related to the protection of the privacy and confidentiality of 
the Date Subject's Personal Data, and his/her ability to exercise their legal rights. The State 
or the Province shall also have a judicial o regulatory authority imposing appropriate 
measures against the Controller or the Processor.  
2. If the State joins a b ilateral or multilateral agreement related to the protection of Personal 
Data concluded with countries to which the Personal Data is transferred.  
 
Article (23) 
Cross -Border Transfer and Sharing of Personal Data for Processing Purposes if a 
Proper Protection  Level is not Available  
1. Notwithstanding article (22) of this Decree by Law, Personal Data may be transferred to 
outside the State in the following cases:  
a. Companies, operating in countries where there are no laws for Data Protection, may 
transfer  data under a contract or agreement obligating the companies in such countries Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 26 
 to adopt measures, controls and requirements set out in this Decree by Law, in addition 
to provisions forcing the Controller or the Processor to adopt appropriate measures 
which  are imposed by a judicial or regulatory authority in such countries as set out in the 
contract.  
b. If there is an explicit consent granted by the Data Subject to transfer his/her Personal 
Data outside the State, provided that such transfer shall not con tradict the public or 
security interest of the State.  
c. If the transfer is necessary to fulfil obligations and establish rights before judicial entities, 
exercise or defend the same.  
d. If the transfer is necessary to sign or implement a contract made between the Controller 
and the Data Subject, or between th e Controller and third parties to serve the interest of 
the Data Subject.  
e. If the transfer is necessary to implement an action related to an international judicial 
cooperation.  
f. If the transfer is necessary to protect the public interest.  
2. The Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law set forth the controls and stipulations 
referred to in Paragraphs (1) of this Article, which should be observed during the transfer of 
data outside the State.  
  
Article (24) 
Complaints  
1. The Data Subject shall have the right to submit complaints to the Bureau if he/she believes 
that there is a violation of this Decree by Law or that the Controller or the Processor is Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 27 
 processing his/ her Personal Data in violation of the rules and procedure s set by the Bureau 
in this regard.  
2. The Bureau shall receive complaints from the Data Subject in accordance with Paragraph (1) 
of this Article and shall examine such complaints in coordination with the Controller and the 
Processor.  
3. The Bureau sha ll impose the administrative penalties referred to in article (26) of this 
Decree by Law if it is proven that the Controller or the Processor violates its provisions, or 
the decisions issued in implementation of the same.  
  
Article (25) 
Grievance against the  Bureau's Decisions  
Any stakeholder may submit a written grievance to the General Director of the Bureau against 
any decision or administrative penalty or any other action taken by the Bureau against such 
stakeholder within (30) thirty days as of the date on which a notice of such administrative 
decision or penalty is given. Additionally, deciding upon such complaint shall be made within 
(30) thirty days as of the date on which the complaint is submitted.  
It is not permissible to challenge any decision issu ed by the Bureau in implementation of the 
provisions of this Decree by Law before submitting a grievance against the same. The Executive 
Regulations of this Decree by Law set out the procedures for submitting a grievance and deciding 
thereupon.  
  
Article (26) 
Administrative Penalties  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 28 
 The Council of Ministers, based upon a suggestion from the General Director of the Bureau, shall 
issue a decision to limit the actions which constitute a violation of this Decree by Law and its 
Executive Regulations, including ad ministrative penalties to be imposed.  
  
Article (27) 
 Authorization  
The Council of Ministers, based upon a suggestion from the General Director of the Bureau, may 
authorize any competent local government authority within the scope of its local competence, to 
exercise some of the Bureau' powers set out in this Decree by Law.  
  
Article (28) 
The Executive Regulation  
The Council of Ministers, based upon a suggestion from the General Director of the Bureau, shall 
issue the Executive Regulations of this Decree by Law within six (6) months as of the date on 
which the Decree by Law is promulgated.  
  
Article (29) 
Regularisati on 
The Controller and the Processor shall regularize their status in compliance with the provisions 
of this Decree by Law within a period of no more than six (6) months as of the date on which its 
Executive Regulations are issued. The Council of Ministers may extend such period for another 
similar period.  
  Federal Decree by Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Data  
 29 
 Article (30) 
Repeals  
Any provision that violates or contradicts the provisions of this Decree by Law shall be repealed.  
  
Article (31) 
Publication & Enforcement of this Decree by Law  
This Decree by Law shall  by published in the Official Gazette and shall come into force as of 02 
January 2022.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Khalifa Bin Zayed Al -Nahyan  
President  of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
 
 
Issued by us at the Presidency Palace in Abu Dhabi:  
On: 13 / Safar / 1443 AH  
Corresponding: 20 / September / 2021AD  