Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  1 
 Federal Decree by Law No. (46) of 2023  
Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  
 
We, Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan,               President of the United Arab Emirates;  
− Upon reviewing the Constitution,  
− Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 Concerning the Jurisdictions of Ministries and Powers of 
Ministers, as amended;  
− Federal Law No. (12) of 2019 Regulating the Space Sector;  
− Based on the proposal of Her Highness, Minister of State for Public Education and Advanced 
Technology, the Chairman of the UAE Space Agency, and the approval of the Cabinet,  
Have promulgated the following Decree by Law:  
 
Article (1)  
Definitions  
In application of the provisions of this Decree by Law, the following words and phrases shall have 
the meanings assigned to each of them, unless  the context otherwise requires:  
State  : United Arab Emirates (UAE).  
State Territory  : The State lands, territorial sea, and the air space above them, 
including free zones or any areas with a special economic status.  
Government Entities  : Ministries, public authorities and institutions, and all other 
federal or local Government Agencies in the State.  
Agency  : UAE Space Agency.  
BOD  : Board of Directors of the UAE Space Agency.  
BOD Chairman  : The UAE Space Agency BOD Chairman.  
Outer Space  : Any area eighty kilometres or more above the mean sea level.  
Space Object  : Object that a person makes, launches, or aims to launch into the 
Outer Space or under the Outer Space, whether manned or Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  2 
 unmanned that shall include: the constituent parts of the Space 
Obj ect, its Launch Vehicle and the parts thereof.  
Launch  : The process of launching or attempting to launch a Space Object 
into, under, or through the Outer Space. This shall include all 
necessary preparations and activities at the launch site, up to the 
stage of the load separation and detachment from the head of the 
Space Object.  
Space Activities  : Activities targeting Outer Space and the technical operations 
associated with it in accordance with the provisions of Clause (1) of article (4) of this Decree by Law.  
Other activities 
related to the Space 
Sector  : Activities stipulated in Clause (2) of article (4) of this Decree by 
Law that are practised outside Outer Space and are related to 
space.  
Space -Flight  : A Space Activity where a Space Object transpor ting individuals, 
living creatures, equipment, or other payloads to or under or 
through the Outer Space, or returning therefrom, whether that 
flight is Orbital, sub -Orbital, or over the Earth Orbit.  
Manned Space -
Flight  : any space- flight that uses a space object to transport any member 
of the Space- Flight crew or any of the Human Space -Flight 
Participants, or both.  
Orbital Space -Flight  : Space -Flight aiming to complete a revolution in Earth Orbit, and 
is not required to reach Outer Space.  
Sub -Orbital Space -
Flight  : Space -Flight aiming to enter the Outer Space and does not aim to 
complete a revolution in Earth Orbit.  
Space -Supporting 
Flights  : Any flight undertaken in the State airspace, which aims to support 
Space Activities and the associated experi ments and training.  
High Altitude Activities  : 
Activities that shall be above the range of air traffic control and 
lower than the Outer Space.  
 Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  3 
 Space 
Communications  : Space Activities regulated by the Space Sector and related to 
communications.  
Space Data  : Data that results from Space Activities, whether it is remote 
sensing data, or navigation data using satellites, or others.  
Incident  : Incident arising from Space Activities or Space -Supporting 
Flights, or High -Altitude Activities, and affects or almost affects 
the safety of such activities, or the work of a Space Object or 
aircraft used in a Space -Supporting Flight, or High- Altitude 
Activities, or causes damage, or almost causes damage to a person or any objects or property in the atmosphere or on  the surface of 
the Earth, and where the damage caused by this incident does not 
reach the level of the accident.  
Accident  : Accident caused by Space Activities, Space -Supporting Flights, or 
High Altitude Activities, that leads to the death of a person or  
severe damage thereto, or leads to the destruction or cause severe 
damage to a Space Object or aircraft used in a Space -Supporting 
Flight, or High Altitude Activities or the property on board or leads to the destruction or severe damage to any objects or property in 
the atmosphere or on the surface of the Earth.  
Meteorite  : A natural mass or metal stone, a non -man -made, reaching the 
Earth from Outer Space, with non- human intervention.  
Space Debris  : 
Space Object or its debris that have no role or purpose , including 
its parts or components and the materials, waste, or fragments 
resulting therefrom, whether in Outer Space, including the Earth 
Orbit, or inside the Earth atmosphere.  
Space Resources  : Any non -living resources present in Outer Space, including  
minerals and water.  
 Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  4 
 Space Nuclear 
Energy Sources  : Devices used in Space Activities to generate energy and using 
nuclear materials, radioisotopes or a nuclear reactor.  
Launch Vehicle  : A Space Object used for transporting payload, other Space 
Objects, individuals, living organisms, equipment or other 
materials to the Outer Space or the Sub -Orbital area below Outer 
Space or to return from Outer Space or the Sub -Orbital area 
below Outer Space.  
Person  : Natural or Legal Person.  
Operator  : A person who practices Space Activities, or other activities related 
to the Space Sector subject to this Decree by Law and the resolutions issued pursuant to it.  
Permit  : A document granted to a person by the Agency, to carry out Space Activities or activities related  to the Space Sector.  
Authorised Operator  : 
Any Operator who has obtained the necessary Permit to perform 
his activities in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by 
Law.  
Space Sector  : The sector that shall include all activities, projects and 
programmes related to Outer Space.  
Dual -Use Goods : Goods with common civil, commercial or military uses organised 
in accordance with the legislation in force in the State.  
Damage  : Life loss, personal injury, or any other harm to health, or the loss or damage that is caused to the property of the State, Persons, or 
intergovernmental organisations.  
Re-Entry  : Process of returning or attempting to return a Space Object from 
the Outer Space, including stages and preparations necessary for 
its Re -Entry of t he Earth atmosphere, until it settles on the Earth.  
 Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  5 
 The Convention on 
Registration of 
Objects Launched 
into Outer Space  : The Convention on Registration of Objects Launched into Outer 
Space  ratified by Federal Decree by Law No. (85) of 2000  above 
mentioned . 
 
Article (2)  
Objectives  
This Decree by Law aims to achieve the following:  
1. Organise Space Activities and other activities related to the Space Sector.  
2. Stimulate investment and encourage private and academic sector participation in the Space 
Sector and related activities.  
3. Support the implementation of the necessary safety, security and environmental measures to 
enhance the long -term stability and sustainability of Space Activities and related activities to 
the Space Sector.  
4. Support the transparency principle and the State commitment to implement the provisions of 
international conventions and treaties related to Outer Space and to which the State is a party.  
 
Article (3)  
Scope of Application  
The provisions of this Decree by Law shall apply to S pace Activities and other Space Sector -
related activities that shall be carried out as follows:  
1. In the State Territory or the State establishments outside the State Territory.  
2. Space Vehicles or Space Objects registered with the State.  
3. By persons who hold t he nationality of the State, or companies that have a headquarters in 
the State or the Foreign Companies having their activities in the State.  
 
 
 Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  6 
 Article (4)  
Regulated Activities  
This Decree by Law regulates the following activities:  
1. Space Activities, which shall include the following:  
a. Launch.  
b. Space Object  
c. Remove or dispose of a Space Object from the Orbit.  
d. Operate the Launch Sites or the Space Object Re -Entry Sites.  
e. Operate Space Objects, including: monitoring and controlling them.  
f. Satellite communication activities.  
g. Activities of space navigation, remote sensing or Earth observation.  
h. Space awareness activities (including awareness of the space case, status, and 
surrounding conditions), and related monitoring and tracking of Space Objects.  
i. Activities including the discovery, exploitation, extraction and use of space 
resources, whether for commercial, scientific or other purposes.  
j. Provide logistical support services in the Outer Space.  
k. Scientifically exploring space, conducting Space Sector - related scientific 
experiments, and participate in Astronomy activities.  
l. Manned Space -Flights, or long -term human residence in space, or the 
construction or use of facilities in space or on the surface of Celestial Bodies, 
permanently or temporarily.  
m. Manufact ure, assembly, completion, development, testing, transportation, 
storage, trade or disposal of, or re -purpose space technologies.  
n. Any other Space Activities as determined by a Cabinet Resolution based on the 
proposal of the BOD.  
2. Other Space Sector -related activities, including:  
a. Space -Supporting Flights and High Altitude Activities that shall not be subject to 
Federal Law No. (20) of 1991 promulgating the Civil Aviation Law, whether they are Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  7 
 carried out in the State Territory or include the participation of a flying aircraft or 
vehicle registered in the State.  
b. Space Data Management Activities, which include receiving, storing, processing, 
distributing, archiving or disposing of any Space Data.  
c. Any other Space Sector -related activities determined by a Cabinet Resolution, upon 
the proposal of the BOD.  
 
Article (5)  
Permits for Space Activities  
1. Space Activities listed in Clause (1) of article (4) of this Decree by Law may not be practiced or establish, use or own Space facilities or facilities associated with them  without obtaining 
Permit or No -Objection Certificate in advance from the Agency.  
2. The general conditions, controls and procedures related to the Permit, including its granting, 
renewal, suspension, amendment, cancellation, assignment to others, inclusion in or 
attachment to Permit previously granted, shall be determined by a resolution issued by the 
Cabinet or whomever it delegates.  
3. As an exception to the provision of Clause (1) of this Article, the BOD Chairman may form an 
Interim Committee to exempt any s pecific Space Operator or Activities from obtaining the 
Permit or the No - Objection Certificate or from any special conditions, controls or procedures 
stipulated in this Decree by Law or any resolutions issued in their implementation.  
4. The Agency shall conf irm that the application for the Permit meets the terms and conditions 
prescribed for its granting.  
5. The suspension or cancellation of the Permit shall not exonerate any Operator from any liability, administrative penalty, punishment or any other obligation, unless otherwise 
provided in this Permit;  
6. The assignment of the Permit to third parties shall not exonerate any Operator from any 
obligation or liability established prior to the date of the assignment.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  8 
 7. Without prejudice to the criminal liability, the Permit may not be assigned except with the 
prior approval of the Agency. The liability shall be joint between the Assignee and the 
Assignor in case of violation thereof.  
8. As an exception to the provisions contained in the previous Clauses of this Ar ticle, any person 
wishing to practice Satellite Communications Activities shall obtain a prior No -Objection 
Certificate from the Agency, provided that the final Permit is issued by the Competent 
Authority to regulating communications in the State in accord ance with the legislation in 
force therein.  
9. The Agency has the discretion to refuse to grant Permits or No -Objection Certificates to any 
person, in accordance with what it deems to be in the public interest.  
 
Article (6)  
Manned Space -Flight Activities  
1. Subj ect to the provisions of article (5) of this Decree by Law and any regulations or 
resolutions issued in this regard, the Operator shall, before allowing any Natural Person to 
participle in a Space -Flight, submit to the Agency the following:  
a. A proof that th e Natural Person shall be aware and well- informed of the risks associated 
with the Space -Flight and the Natural Person is fully aware of it.  
b. A written approval of the Natural Person to take the Space -Flight;  
c. Proof that the Natural Person has completed the necessary training.  
d. Proving that the Natural Person has the physical and health fitness to undertake a Space -
Flight.  
e. A proof that the Operator has completed all necessary risk and safety assessments, and 
that there is a suitable emergency plan.  
f. The Natural Person fulfils any requirements issued by a resolution of the BOD.  
2. Every Operator permitted to conduct a Manned Space -Flight shall immediately inform the 
Agency of any Incident or Accident encountered, or the risks faced, and any measures undertaken there by to reduce the same or the effects thereof.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  9 
 3. The conditions and controls of liability related to the activities of Manned Space -Flight shall 
be determined by a BOD resolution, in cooperation with the Concerned Government Entities, 
and in particular those related to Sub -Orbital Flights.  
4. The Agency may request any proof, documents or information for confirming that the 
Operator fulfils their obligations stipulated in Clause (1) of this Article.  
 
Article (7)  
Permits for the Use of Space Nuclear Energy Sources  
1. Subject to the legislation in force in the State concerning the peaceful use of nuclear energy, any Operator shall be prohibited from using Space Nuclear Energy Sources without obtaining 
Permit from the Agency.  
2. The conditions, controls and procedures pertaining to the Permit to use Space Nuclear Energy 
Sources, including: granting, inclusion in or attachment to Permit previously granted, shall be 
determined by a Cabinet resolution, upon a proposal from the Agency after coordination with 
the Concerned Gover nment Entities.  
3. Subject to the legislation in force in the State concerning to the use of Space Nuclear Energy Sources, every Operator permitted to use Space Nuclear Energy Sources shall immediately 
inform the Agency of any Accident or Incident encountered  or expected, or the risks faced, 
and any measures undertaken thereby to prevent or reduce the same or the effects thereof.  
4. The applicant for Permit to use Space Nuclear Energy Sources shall indicate in the application 
the reasons justifying such use.  
 
Article (8)  
Exploration, Exploitation and Use of Space Resources  
1. The conditions and controls relating to Permits for the exploration, exploitation and use of 
Space Resources, including their acquisition, purchase, sale, trade, transportation, storage and 
any Space Activities aimed at providing logistical services in this regard shall be determined 
by a resolution issued by the Cabinet or whomever it delegates.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  10 
 2. The Permits referred to in Clause (1) of this Article shall be granted by a resolution of the BOD.  
 
Article (9)  
Space Debris Mitigation  
1. Every Operator permitted to own or develop a Space Object, or carry out or participate in 
Space Activities, shall take the necessary measures and plans to mitigate Space Debris and 
reduce the effects thereof, as determ ined by resolutions in force in this regard.  
2. Without prejudice to the provisions of article (23) of this Decree by Law, every Operator 
permitted to own a Space Object, develop it, or carry out Space Activities or participate in them, shall immediately info rm the Agency of the following:  
a. Any Space Debris resulting from any of the Space Objects that implement or participate in the permitted activities;  
b. Exposure of any of the Space Objects provided in Paragraph (A) of this Clause, to a highly 
potential risk, loss of control, or collision with a Space Debris or other Space Objects in Outer 
Space;  
c. Any measures or plans taken to mitigate the risks resulting from any of the Paragraph s (a) and (b) of this Clause or to reduce its effects; and  
d. Any modifications to th e measures and plans taken to mitigate Space Debris or reduce its 
effects.  
 
Article (10)  
Liability among the Contracting Parties or Third Parties  
1. The Operator compliance to the obligations prescribed therefor under this Decree by Law 
shall not exempt from liability for damage caused on the surface of the Earth or in vehicle 
during its flight inside the State territory or outside it, by a Space Object owned, operated or 
participated in the activities permitted for the Operator, towards other parties not part icipating in or contracted with in such activities or in case of damage to third parties.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  11 
 2. If the Authorised Operator activity caused damage to the Natural Persons on board the Space 
Object, or the property thereon, during a Manned Space -Flight, then the St ate shall not be 
liable for their compensation, even if the Operator is in compliance with the obligations 
established therefor under this Decree by Law and any regulations or resolutions issued in 
this regard.  
3. The State neither it nor any of its agencies or units be liable for any compensation arising out 
of any damages of any nature or size caused by the Operator Space Activity towards any other parties contracted with to exercise that activity, or any Persons participating in that activity or 
during their presence, at the invitation of the Operator or the launching state in the immediate 
vicinity of the area from which the Launch or the Re -Entry is to be carried out.  
4. The compensation referred to in Clause (3) of this Article shall be limited between the p arties 
participating in the Space Activity, in accordance with the terms, conditions and obligations 
mentioned in the contracts concluded therewith or what shall be agreed upon between those 
parties.  
5. If the Operator referred to in Clause (1) of this Article is permitted, and the Space Activities 
thereof are carried out in accordance with the Permit granted thereto, then the Operator shall 
be liable for compensating the damage caused to third parties in accordance with the 
provisions of article (13) of  this Decree by Law.  
6. If the Operator is not permitted and not exempted in accordance with the provisions of this 
Decree by Law, or is in violation of the Permit granted to him, then the Operator liability for 
compensation for damage caused to third parties  shall be unlimited.  
 
Article (11)  
Liability for Hitting Another Space Object  
1. When the error is proven, the Operator shall be liable for any damage caused by the Space 
Object that it owns, operates, or jointly owns or operates, to another Space Object, Per sons, 
or Property onboard that Space Object, in a place other than the surface of the Earth.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  12 
 2. If the Operator referred to in Clause (1) of this Article is permitted, and the Space Activities 
thereof are carried out in accordance with the Permit granted ther eto, then the Operator shall 
be liable for compensating the damage caused to others inside the State, in accordance with 
the provisions of article (12) of this Decree by Law.  
3. If the Operator referred to in Clause (1) is not permitted and not exempted in ac cordance with 
the provisions of this Decree by Law, or is in violation of the Permit granted to him, then the 
Operator liability for compensation for damage caused to third parties shall be unlimited.  
 
Article (12)  
Liability in Other Cases  
1. The application of the provisions contained in this Decree by Law does not prejudice the 
application of any other laws in force within the State related to the Operator’s liability for damages that arise as a direct result of his activity.  
2. Any terms, conditions or other r ules related to liability for compensation in other cases shall 
be determined by a resolution of the BOD.  
 
Article (13)  
Estimating the Limitation of Compensation for Liability  
1. When estimating the limits of compensation for liability for Space Activity or activities related to the Space Sector, in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by Law or any 
regulations or resolutions issued in this regard, the following factors shall be taken into 
account:  
a. The size of the Launch Vehicle and any other Space Object launched therefrom.  
b. The purpose of the activity.  
c. The fact sheet of the launching Operator or the process of Re -Entry.  
d. The curved path pattern of the launched or re -entered Space Object.  
e. Any other factors that determine the risk of Accidents or Incidents.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  13 
 2. The terms, provisions and rules for the calculation and limitations of compensation 
mentioned in this Article shall be determined by a resolution issued by the Cabinet or 
whomever it delegates.  
 
Article (14)  
Insurance and Guarantees  
1. The Operator shall provide the Agency with proof that he has the necessary financial coverage 
to cover any damage or liability towards third parties that may arise during the exercise of 
Space Activity, whether in the form of insurance contract covering the entire duration of the 
Space Activity, or in the form of a financial guarantee approved by the Agency to obtain Permit 
from the Agency to practice Space Activity, and to renew this coverage on  ongoing basis.  
2. As an exception to the provisions of Clause (1) of this Article, Interim Committee may be 
formed by resolution of the BOD Chairman to exempt some activities from the requirements 
stipulated in Clause (1) of this Article, in whole or in part , and any other requirements 
contained in this Decree by Law or the resolutions issued in implementation thereof.  
3. The Agency may request the Operator who wishes to practice activities related to the Space Sector to submit insurance contract, or any other g uarantees approved by the Agency.  
 
Article (15)  
Liability when Using State Launch Facilities  
The Operator shall conclude a special agreement with the Entity that owns the State launch facilities to clarify the limits of liability between the parties for an y damages that may be caused 
to those facilities or state property, in coordination with the Agency.  
 
Article (16)  
Permit to Other Space Sector- Related Activities  
1. It is prohibited to undertake or participate in any other Space Sector -Related Activities, 
without obtaining Permit from the Agency.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  14 
 2. The conditions and controls for the Permits authorising other Space Sector -Related Activities 
shall be issued by a Cabinet Resolution, based on a proposal from the Agency after 
coordination with the concerned Gover nment Entities.  
3. The BOD Chairman may form Interim Committee to be concerned with exempting any 
Person, Operator or any other Space Sector -Related Activities from obtaining Permit, or from 
any conditions, controls or procedures relating thereto. The resolut ion to form the Interim 
Committee shall specify its tasks and how it will hold its meetings and make its resolutions.  
4. The Agency shall confirm that any application for Permit authorising other Space Sector -
Related Activities meets the conditions and contro ls prescribed for its granting.  
5. Coordination concerning geospatial data resulting from other activities related to the Space 
Sector and specified in Paragraph (B) of Clause (2) of article (4) of this Decree by Law shall be 
made with the Federal Centre for Geographic Information.  
 
Article (17)  
Space -Supporting Flight Activities and High Altitude Activities  
1. Subject to the provision of article (16) of this Decree by Law or any regulations or resolutions issued in this regard, the Agency may request the Permit Applicant or operators wishing to 
carry out Space -Supporting Flights Activities or High -Altitude Activities to provide it with any 
certificates or fulfil any requirements related to air traffic management.  
2. The Agency shall exonerate the Operator from the o bligation to obtain Permit to carry out 
Space -Supporting Flights Activities and High -Altitude Activities under this Article, if the 
activities are completely covered by Permit or permission granted thereto under Federal Law 
No. (20) of 1991 Issuing the Civ il Aviation Law, or any by -laws or regulatory resolutions 
issued thereunder.  
3. The Agency, upon granting a Permit for Space -Supporting Flight Activities and High Altitude  
Activities which includes manned flight on board, shall confirm that the Operator meets the 
following requirements:  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  15 
 a. A proof that the Natural Person is well-  informed of the risks associated with the Space -
Flight  
b. The Natural Person acknowledgement of conse nt, in accordance with the form approved 
by the Agency, to undertake these flights, and of their commitment to the relevant laws 
and regulations in force in the State.  
c. A proof that the Natural Person has completed the necessary training and health fitness to take the Space -Flight as determined by a resolution issued by the BOD.  
d. A proof that he has performed all necessary risk and safety assessments, and that there is 
a suitable emergency plan; and  
e. Compliance with the legislation in force concerning civil av iation in the State.  
4. Every Operator permitted to engage in Space -Supporting Flight and High -Altitude Activities 
shall immediately inform the Agency of any Incident or Accident encountered, or the risks 
faced, and any measures undertaken thereby to reduce t he same or the effects thereof.  
 
Article (18)  
Meteorites  
By resolution of the BOD, the regulatory controls and procedures for the discovery, registration, trading, ownership and disposal of meteorites and other necessary requirements concerning 
them shall be issued.  
 
Article (19)  
Registration of Space Objects  
1. Subject to the Convention on the Registration of Space Objects Launched into Outer Space, 
the Agency shall establish a national register of Space Objects for which the State is 
considered the launching  State thereof, in accordance with the requirements and conditions 
prescribed by a BOD resolution.  
2. Subject to the Convention on Registration of Space Objects Launched into Outer Space, if there is more than one country eligible to be the launching state of  a Space Object, then the Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  16 
 Agency shall work to enter the State into an agreement with those countries, so as to 
determine the State in charge of registering the Space Object in its own register and that of 
the United Nations.  
3. When carrying out Space Activities, the Operator shall comply at all times with the 
regulations, controls and regulations for the registration of Space Objects.  
4. The Agency, in coordination with the Concerned Government Entities, sets conditions and controls related to the registration of Space Objects, Space- Supporting Flight Vehicles, and 
High -Altitude Activities.  
 
Article (20)  
Intellectual Property Rights  
1. Subject to the international conventions to which the State is a party, Space Activities and other Space Sector, its outputs and re sults related activities shall be subject to the legislation 
in force in the State with regard to the provisions of Industrial Property Rights for Patents and Industrial Designs and Models that are carried out on a Space Object in Outer Space or any 
celest ial body.  
2. The Competent Government Entities in the State, in coordination with the Agency, may set 
any controls, provisions and procedures concerning intellectual property rights in the field of 
Space Activities or other Space Sector related activities, under a Cabinet resolution to be issued in this regard.  
 
Article (21)  
Import and Export Controls.  
1. Subject to international conventions to which the State is a party, Space Activities and other Space Sector -related activities shall be subject to the legislation in force in the State in respect 
of import and export of goods, including those relating to Dual- Use Goods.  
2. The Government Entities in the State, in coordination with the Agency may set controls for import and export of goods, including those r elating to Dual- Use Goods, in the field of Space Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  17 
 Activities or other Space Sector related activities, by virtue of a Cabinet resolution to be issued 
in this regard.  
 
Article (22)  
Managing Risks and Crises  
1. The Operator shall comply with the following:  
a. Devel op a methodology for risk assessment of its physical and electronic assets associated 
with the activities of the Permit;  
b. Implement the process of identifying and assessing the risks associated with the activities 
permitted and providing the Agency with the  results of the assessment of those risks and the 
management plan thereof. The Operator shall submit to the Agency a report of any threats to his/its permitted activities; and  
c. Prepare a risk management plan, including the emergency response mechanism, and provide 
the Agency with a copy thereof and any updates thereto.  
d. The Agency shall be provided by a periodic report that shall be updated annually, or as 
required by the Agency, concerning any warnings or risks related to any Space Objects 
participating in any Activities permitted.  
2. The rules and requirements for the implementation of the provision of Clause (1) of this Article shall be determined by a BOD resolution.  
3. Subject to the provisions of liability established in this Decree by Law, the Operator 
compli ance with obligations prescribed under this Article does not affect the general principle 
stipulating that the State is not liable for any of the plans or reports required under this Article, 
or for the contents of those reports, or any damage caused as a result of the implementation 
of any of the plans or recommendations raised in the reports.  
4. The Concerned Government Entities, in coordination with the Agency, shall prepare a plan for managing Space Sector -related national risks, including the fall of Spac e Objects or 
Meteorites from Outer Space on the State Territory.  
 Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  18 
 Article (23)  
Control and Inspection  
1. The Agency shall, In cooperation with the relevant authorities in the State, undertake the 
necessary control and inspection work to confirm compliance wit h the provisions of this 
Decree by Law and the resolutions issued in implementation thereof.  
2. The Agency employees shall exercise control and inspection tasks referred to in Clause (1) of 
this Article, and a resolution by the Director General of the Agency may assign these or some 
of these tasks to a Person with sufficient experience in any technical aspects subject to control 
and inspection, provided that this shall be under the supervision of the Agency.  
3. Every Operator subject to control and inspection by the Agency shall cooperate therewith, 
provide it with all required information and documents thereto and adhere to the corrective 
measures imposed thereby, in accordance with the time period it determines.  
 
Article (24)  
Investigation of Accidents and Incidents  
1. The BOD, in coordination with the Concerned Government Entities, shall issue a resolution 
of the provisions and procedures related to Accidents and Incidents that occur or have effects 
within or outside the State Territory and investigate those A ccidents and Incidents, taking into 
account cases in which investigative bodies from other states participate.  
2. A resolution shall be issued by the BOD to form a committee to investigate Accidents and Incidents. The resolution shall determine its tasks, pow ers, and work system.  
3. Every Person involved in an Accident or Incident shall cooperate with the Agency and the 
investigation committee formed under Clause (2) of this Article, and provide any information 
requested from him.  
4. Every Operator who has or causes  an Incident or an Accident shall immediately inform the 
Agency and take the necessary measures to limit the scope of the impact and results of the 
Incident or the Accident, based on best practices and what the Agency decides in this regard.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  19 
 5. Any Person who  knew or discovered that the crew member of Space Object had an Accident, 
made emergency landing, or unintentionally landed in the State Territory, or knew or 
discovered that a Space Object or a part thereof has returned to Earth in the State Territory, 
shall immediately inform the Concerned Entities in the State and not take any measures in 
this regard except as determined by those Entities or the Agency.  
 
Article (25)  
Table of Violations, Administrative Measures and Fines  
The Cabinet shall issue, based on a proposal from the BOD, a list of violations and administrative 
penalties related to the application of the provisions of this Decree by Law and the resolutions 
issued in implementation thereof, including complete or partial suspension of the activity fo r a 
specific period.  
 
Article (26)  
Non -Prejudice to a More Severe Penalty  
The imposition of the penalties stipulated in this Law shall be without prejudice to any more 
severe penalty stipulated in any other law.  
 
Article (27)  
Penalties  
Whoever contravenes  the provisions of Clause (1) of article (5) and the provisions of Clause, (3) 
of article (23) of this Decree by Law or every Operator who contravenes the limits of the granted 
Permit shall be punished with imprisonment for a period not exceeding (2) two y ears, and a fine 
of no less than (AED 30,000) thirty thousand dirhams and no more than (AED 1,000,000) one 
million dirhams, or either of them.  
   Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  20 
 Article (28)  
Whoever contravenes the provisions of Clause (1) of article (6) and the provisions of Clauses, (1)  
and (3) of article (7) of this Decree by Law shall be punished with imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding (2) two years, and a fine of no less than (AED 100,000) one hundred thousand dirhams 
and no more than (AED 10,000,000) ten million dirhams, or either of them.  
 
Article (29)  
Whoever contravenes the provisions of Clause (1) of article (14) and the provisions of Clause (1) of article (16 )  of this Decree by Law shall be punished with imprisonment for a period not 
exceeding (6) six months, and a fine of no more than (AED 200,000) two hundred thousand 
dirhams or either of them.  
 
Article (30)  
Whoever contravenes the provisions of Clause (5) of  article (24) of this Decree by Law shall be 
punished with a fine of no more than (AED 200,000).  
 
Article (31)  
Recidivism  
Any of the penalties stipulated in this Decree by Law shall be doubled in case of recidivism.  
 
Article (32)  
Transitional Provisions  
1. Every Operator who has a valid Permit or approval issued by a competent Government Entity 
and relates to any of the activities that shall be subject to the provisions of this Decree by Law, 
shall adjust its situation in accordance with the provisions of th is Decree by Law and the 
resolutions issued in implementation thereof within the period to be determined by a 
resolution of the BOD, provided that it shall not exceed (2) two years as of the date of entry 
into force of this Decree by Law.  Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  21 
 2. The Permits or Ap provals referred to in Clause (1) of this Article shall continue to apply until 
the end of their term, cancellation, or replacement thereof with a Permit from the Agency.  
3. Any Person or Operator granted Permit or Approval in accordance with Clause (1) of this 
Article shall provide the Agency with the following:  
a. A written notice that includes copies of the Permit or approval;  
b. All requirements, information and data related to Permits or Approvals.  
c. Any data or other information required by the Agency, including  information related to 
registration of Space Objects.  
4. Every Operator who practices Space Activities or other activities related to the Space Sector 
without Permit from the Agency shall adjust his conditions in accordance with the provisions 
of this Decree  by Law and the resolutions issued in implementation thereof, within (6) six 
months from the date of its implementation.  
 
Article (33)  
The Concerned Government Entities Cooperation with the Agency  
The Concerned Government Entities in the State shall cooper ate with the Agency in the 
performance of its tasks, on any matters pertaining to those authorities and related to the Agency areas of competence.  
 
Article (34)  
Obtaining Other Permits  
Permit obtained by any Operator in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by Law shall 
not exempt from obtaining any other Permits that shall be required in accordance with the 
provisions of applicable legislations in the State.  
 
 
 
 Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  22 
 Article (35)  
Judicial Enforcement  
The Agency employees who are determined by a resolution issued by the Minister of Justice in 
agreement with the BOD Chairman, shall have the capacity of judicial officers to prove, within 
the limits of their competence, any violations of the provisions of this Decree by Law and the 
resolutions issued in im plementation thereof.  
 
Article (36)  
Appeal against Agency Resolutions  
1. Every person may file appeal against any resolution issued by the Agency in implementation 
of the provisions of this Decree by Law or the resolutions issued in implementation thereof, 
within (60) sixty working days from the date of his notification of the resolution. The appeal 
shall be submitted to the BOD Chairman, provided that it is in writing and accompanied by 
papers and papers. The appeal shall be decided upon within (90) ninety wor king days from 
the date of its submission by a reasoned resolution issued by the BOD Chairman. Failure to 
respond within the aforementioned period shall be considered a rejection of the appeal.  
2. The resolution issued concerning the appeal shall be final, and the resolution may not be 
appealed without a prior appeal and response to it, or the deadline for considering the appeal 
has passed after it was submitted without a response.  
3. The BOD shall issue a resolution regulating all provisions and procedures for submitting, 
considering, and responding to the appeal.  
 
Article (37)  
Executive Resolutions  
Without prejudice to the powers of the Cabinet contained in this Decree by Law, the BOD shall 
issue the necessary resolutions to implement the provisions of this Dec ree by Law.  
 
 Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  23 
  
Article (38)  
Delegation of Competences and Exemptions  
The Cabinet, based on the proposal of the BOD, may exclude any governmental entity from 
implementing all or some of the provisions of this Decree by Law and determine the obligations 
resulting from it, or delegate any of the Agency powers mentioned in this Decree by Law to any 
governmental entity and determine the obligations resulting from it.  
 
Article (39)  
Repeals  
1. The aforementioned Federal Law No. (12) of 2019 concerning the Space S ector shall be 
repealed, as well as any provision that violates or contradicts the provisions of this Decree by Law.  
2. The regulations and resolutions in force at the Agency shall continue to be implemented until 
what replaces them is issued in accordance with the provisions of this Decree by Law, to the 
extent that they conflict with its provisions.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Federal Decree by Law  of 2023 Concerning the Regulation of the Space Sector  24 
  
Article (40)  
Publication and entry into force of Decree by Law  
This Resolution shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall be enforced afte r (30) thirty 
days as of the date of its publication.  
 
 
   
 
 
 
Mohammed Bin Zayed Al Nahyan  
President of the United Arab Emirates  
 
 
 
Issued by us at the Presidential Palace – Abu Dhabi:  
Issued on: September 28, 2023  
Corresponding to: 13 Rabi' I 1445 H  